Name: Sergio Escoto
EID: sre388
CS Login: sescoto
Email: ses110@gmail.com

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Lecture 34
1-Because a signal can only be transmitted at a rate of the maximum capacity of the channel divided by its language entropy
2-Despite the noise, your message will eventually go through since the increased redundancy of the coding scheme means that the important parts of the message will be repeatedly sent.

Lecture 35
1- h = - (log_2 (1/10)) = ~ 3.32
2- Because current models to compute entropy might be inaccurate to estimate the true complexity of natural languages.
3- Zero-order model assumes all symbols are equally probable; first-order models calculate entropy based on the probability of each symbol, second-order models uses digrams, assuming some letters follow other letters--same idea with third-order models: trigrams

Lecture 36
1- Because sometimes it is not possible to obtain knowledge of previous events.
2- The amount that the observer knows about the content message determines how much content is needed in the message for it to be understood. The more the observer knows, the less information is sent.
3- The less redundant the encoding is, the more efficient it is and thus it has lower entropy.

Lecture 37
1- The message contains a set of numbers placed in between frequent symbols like the following: +*!?.:;()[]
2- A message may be encrypted by an algorithm/process without depending on a key.
3- We want to hide the content of the message, but not destroy it so the decrypter can retrieve the information back.
4- Redundancy gives clues on regularities of the message and the attacker could use those as leverage to decrypt it.

Lecture 38
1- D(E(D(E(P))))	->	{{{{P}}}}
2- D(E(E(P, KE), KE), KD)	-> 	{{{P}K_E}K_E}K_D
3- You might infer the content through things such as traffic analysis to find that more messages are being sent by particular entities.
4- A cryptanalyst might leverage the use of frequent letters and combinations that occur in the language to infer the encrypted message.

Lecture 39
1- It may be possible to write a program to try all possibilities but it may take too much time to break it.
2- (*)
3- Almost all modern symmetric encryption algorithms use the two operations over and over in complicated ways. Substitution is the best operation for this.
4- Confusion taking a symbol in plaintext and replacing it with something else to confuse the attacker, Diffusion is taking the information content at a particular place in the plaintext and moving it somewhere else or smearing it out over several positions in the ciphertext. Transposition is best for this.
5- Why not both? (*)

Lecture 40
1- A monoalphabetic cipher exchanges a symbol of the plaintext with another uniformly. A polyalphabetic cipher makes different substitutions depending on where in the plaintext the symbol occurs.
2- The key is whatever you specify as the mapping.
3- Because we need to try mappings for each symbol to another symbol and that could take at worst k! times.
4- The key is a shift of 2 letters
5- Size of keyspace is 26
6- No. The size of the keyspace is 26.
7- You find the corresponding column or row letter matched up to each symbol from the ciphertext and the key.


Lecture 41
1- 26^3, 26 possible choices for each letter (could depend on symbol position)
2- Because for a simple substitution cipher, each symbol maps to another symbol regardless of its position in the plaintext. So, 26 choices for "x", then 25 possible choices for the two "y's"
3- Yes, see the one-time pad encryption method.

Lecture 42
1- Because even if an attacker intercepts the cipher, they would have no knowledge of the plaintext because any plaintext could be the pre-image of that ciphertext under a plausible key.
2- The attacker could get information from the key use patterns such as knowing it has even parity then it could eliminate half the search space.
3- The Key Distribution problem is the issue of finding a way to have two parties share the same key without giving it out if there is no secure channel in the first place.

Lecture 43
1- Transposition still preserves letter frequency so it is still vulnerable to statistical analysis.

Lecture 44
1- A one-time pad is a symmetric encryption since it needs the same key to encrypt and decrypt.
2- Key distribution is the issue of distributing the same key between two parties without anyone intercepting it, while key management is the issue of managing many keys and making them available as needed.
3- No, if someone gets ahold of the public key, they can only encrypt, they need K_S-1 to decrypt the message.
4- Symmetric encryption systems are stronger, but asymmetric encryption systems are more convenient when having many users

Lecture 45
1- Stream ciphers are susceptible to insertions or modifications while block ciphers are more immune to that, while block encryption is slower, computers are becoming more faster and slowness is less of an issue now.
2- If an encryption algorithm is malleable, then it is vulnerable to attacks like chosen-plaintext attacks, etc.
3- What (*)

Lecture 46
1- The first step, subBytes, uses confusion/substitution
2- The second step, shiftRows uses diffusion/transposition
3- The mixColumn step requires multiplying each column by a fixed array with large values.
4- AES uses blocks to divide information into smaller more manageable modules and it uses rounds to use multiple confusion/diffusion techniques to encrypt information
5- The larger the plaintext/information, the more necessary it is to add more rounds.

Lecture 47
1- Each block in the plaintext will be identical in the ciphertext.
2- We can overcome this issue using CBC, where we XOR each successive plaintext block with the previous ciphertext block and then encrypt.
3- An attacker can observe changes to the ciphertext over time and will be able to spot the first block that changed. And if an attacker can find two identical ciphertext blocks, he can derive some information about the plaintext blocks.
4- In keystream generation modes, the cipher is used more as a PRNG, it can be a key stream to be used as in one-time pad.

Lecture 48
1- The private key must be kept secret.
2- Because they rely on operations that can be easily computed, but difficult to invert without additional information (factoring the product of two primes).
3- They solve the issue of distributing a shared key between two parties without the need for a secure channel to distribute it.
4- (*)
5- Public key encryption takes 10,000 times as long to perform as symmetric encryption

Lecture 49
1- Yes, RSA is symmetric in the use of keys.
2- RSA relies on the computational difficulty of factoring large numbers.
3- No.
4- Because they would need A's private key to decrypt it.
5- Because anyone could have encrypted the message using A's public key.
6- Because only B could have encrypted the message using their private key, so A would decrypt using B's public key.
7- They can decrypt the message using B's public key.
8- B could send a message that is encrypted with its own private key for authenticity (to prove B wrote the message), and another message encrypted with A's public key for confidentiality (to hide the message)

Lecture 50
1- (*)
2- Weak collision resistance means that for a given plaintext, it is hard to find another plaintext such that both map to the same hash. Strong collision means it is difficult to find such pairs that map to the same hash.
3- Preimage resistance means finding the message that returns the given hash, while second preimage resistance means finding another message that hashes to the same as the first message.
4- It means we must go through 1.25*2^64 values before finding a collision.
5- It means we must go through 1.25*2^80 values before finding a collision.
6- Because hash functions are one-way, you cannot decrypt the message.
7- Any small change to the message maps to a significantly different hash value.
8- B can send an encrypted message that contains two messages: one with the message and another with the hash value of the message to ensure it was not tampered.

Lecture 51
1- No, because S should not have access to R's private key.
2- Yes, the order does not matter and we would have accomplished the same goal.
3- No, it would decrypt something that wasn't encrypted originally
4- It requires both confidentiality and authentication.

Lecture 52
1- If an eavesdropper knew of p, g and (g^a)*mod p, it would still need the other party's secret number to do anything useful.
2- The attacker would still need the other party's secret number to do anything useful.
3- The attacker would still need the other party's secret number to do anything useful.