Name:     Michael Both
EID:      mjb3299
CS Login: mjboth
Email:    mjboth@earthlink.net


Lecture 66
1) Pretty Good Privacy, the amalgamation of serveral high-end cryptogrophy algorithms as one strong encryption that is usable by the average person.

2) Zimmerman's distrust of the government led to him creating PGP.

3) Yes, it is the strongest encryption out there that even the FBI has trouble cracking, and it is soon on its way to becoming an internet standard.

4) Companies do not trust freeware, the want a company with dependable support.


Lecture 67
1) The Sender sends an open message along with the hash for that message encrypted with the Sender's private key.  The Reciever decrypts the hashed message with the Sender's public key and hashes the message itself to compare it with the encrypted hash to see if they match to prove that Sender is really the sender.

2) The Sender creates a message and generates a session key.  The Message is encrypted with the session key and the session key itself is encrypted with the Reciever's public key both are sent to the reciever.  The key is decrypted and from there so is the message.

3) You take the previous two steps and perform them both.


Lecture 68
1) Compression, Email Compatibility, and Segmentation

2) If information is to be sent over the internet, the compression is needed to preserve bandwidth.

3) We do not want the signature to depend upon the compression algorithm. Also, compressing before encryption reduces redundancy in the message.

4) Radix-64 takes 3 octets and converts them into 4 ASCII characters.  This is becuase most email handlers can only accept ASCII.

5) Some email handlers can only send messages no greater than a certain size, so segmentation breaks up the message into chunks of a size that all email handlers can send, then performs the PGP algorithm on it before sending.


Lecture 69
1) Session keys, Public keys, Private keys, and Passphrase-based keys

2) They must be symmetric and random.

3) They have to be randomly generated, it could be based on the previous key used, input from the keyboard or mouse, etc.

4) The keys are based upon generating two large prime numbers

5) The user creates a passphrase, which is then hashed to create the Passphrase key which is used to encrypt the private key.  This is necessary beacuse if an attacker gets into the system and finds the private key then the entire PGP system fails.


Lecture 70
1) The Sender sends the last 64 bits of the public key along with the message and from there the reciever does an associative search.

2) A time stamp stating when the key was generated, the key ID (which is just the last 64 bits), the public key for this private key, the private key itself (encrypted with the passphrase key), and the user ID.

3) The time stamp, the key ID, the public key itself, and the User ID.

4) The PGP client identifies which key is being used, then asks the user for the passphrase to decrypt it, the session key is then recovered using the private key and the message is decoded.

5) An indicator that determines if the public key is valid for this user.

6) The owner just sends a key revocation certificate and key holders are expected to update their public key rings.


Lecture 71
1) The consumer problem is where an attacker gets between a client and a service and stops their communication.  The producer problem is where a server cannot answer the requests it receives.  The producer problem is more prevalent, since there is very little effort needed.

2) Syn flooding is where an attacker sends an TCP handshake request to a server, but sends an illegitimate return address so the server sends it's Syn/Ack off elsewhere until it timesout. While it waits for this time out, the server has a half-open connection that will deny legitimate access until the connection is complete/timesout.

3) a) Increaseing queue size consumes resources, and the attacker can just send more attacks to nullify that solution like it's nothing.
   b) Shortening the timeout period may prevent access to slower clients.
   c) Filtering suspicious packets is difficult because we cannot easily determine which packets are false.


Lecture 72
1) It can prevent opening channels to false requests by detecting a pattern in a request and blocking messages with that pattern.

2) An intrusion detection system works to stop attacks when they've already begun.  Intrusion prevention is about blocking attacks before they begin.

3) a) Have too many servers to be overwhelmed
   b) Filter attack packets from regular packets
   c) Slow down processing
   d) Request additional traffic from all requestions


Lecture 73
1) A false negative is when an attack slips in undetected, a false positive is when legitimate behavior is mistaken for an attack.  Generally a false negative would be worse, but it depends.

2) Accuracy is the detection of all attacks, Precision is never misclassifiying legitimate behavior for an attack.

3) You can just deny access or give access to everyone and you already have one or the other.

4) Even if your IDS is very accurate and rather percise.  If most traffic is legitimate than most alarms raised are going to be a false positive.


Lecture 74
1) CodeRed tried to infect machines that were vulnerable to a security flaw in Microsoft's IIS webservers at a system level.  The machines would then generate a random list of IP addresses and go infect those machines between the 1st and 19th day of every month.  On the 20th and 28th the machines would begen a DoS attack against whitehouse.gov.  It would also deface some webpages saying "Hacked by Chinese".

2) It didn't work well becuase the IP addresses being randomly generated were from a static seed, so the same list was being generated over and over again.

3) It lived in the memory of the machine, the RAM.  A simple reboot was able to remove the virus from the machine.

4) Version 2 had a better seed for creating IP addresses, it was able to infect 359,000 machines in 14 hours.


Lecture 75
1) CodeRedII used the buffer-overflow security flaw to infect webservers at a system level and would generate reandom IP addresses to infect other machines as well.

2) In order to infect not just random machines but an entire network since machines on the same network would likely be just as vulnerable to the virus.

3) CodeRedII installed a backdoor on webservers for root-level access in order to use them later in future attacks.

4) Western countries were to only ones that had a little over half of their machines patched for this kind of infection.  Eastern nations like China, however, would have under half and even as little as 13% patched.

5) There was a solution long before the attack was around, and 230 million records were compromised becuase of it.  This could easily have been prevented.


Lecture 76
1) Most consumers do not have the expertise to evaluate individual security products on their own.

2) An evaluation standard requires:
   a) A set of requirements defining security functionality
   b) A set of assurance requirements for setting the functional requirements
   c) A methodology for making sure the functional requirements are met
   d) A measure of evaluation stating the system's trustworthiness.

3) Cryptology is a senstive area with fewer experts than other areas.

4) a) Basic security with at least one approved algorithm, no physical security required
   b) Improved physical security that show evidence of tampering.
   c) Strong tampering resistance and attempts to deter an attacker's access to data.
   d) Complete envelope of protection with high probability of intrusion detection and the zeroing of all plaintext critical security parameters upon intrusion.


Lecture 77
1) An evaluation critea for security systems used by multiple countries.

2) It is used by 26 countries for evaluating security systems.

3) Some countries may not find the critera as specific enough for their security needs.

4) A security target is the set of security requirements that need to be met, the protection profiles are the implementation methods that must be met for a security product or system.


Lecture 78
1) To securly transmit and store the correct amount of trash that a user is throwing away and charging them for that amount.

2) Assets: The variables of the system.
   Environmental Assumptions: What is beleived to be true of the system
   Threats: Possible attacks on the system
   Organizational Security Policies: What a user might add to the system
   Security Objectives: The goals of the system to stop threats
   Secuirty Requirements: The method of implementation for completeing the Secuirty Objectives

3) The matrix is for determining if all threats or assumptions have some secuirty mechanism designed to prevent that threat or validate that assumption to ensure a secure system.  If every row has at least one mark in it, then the system is secure for all flaws that have been thought of by the designer.


Lecture 79
1) To ensure that a computer system remains secure with only trusted users operating on the system.

2) A protection profile is a model of security, not for any specific product but for a type of system.  While a security target is security for a specific system which is submitted for evaluation.


Lecture 80
1) Evaluation Assurance Level, the certification of how rigorously a secuirty target or protection profile has been tested and evaluated.

2) The CC certification is certified by the government, either through government organizations(at higher levels), or independent labs certified by the government (at lower levels) of the of the country where the system was evalutated.

3) High level evaluations have been directly certified by the governments of other countries and only states that it has been certifie, not that it is secure.  Meaning another country will have no idea how secure it is themselves or if it is even trustworthy.

4) No, certification must be done by the government or a lab certified by the government to ensure that proper testing has been carried out.  Plus, the EAL number is used as a marketing tool, certification would be rigged to sell more products.

5) The product has to have a formal model of security to build from the ground-up, not the other way around where you have to code and design a model from that.