me: Hanah Luong
EID: hkl289
CS login: hanahx3
Email: hanah.luong@utexas.edu

LECTURE 53
1. You don’t want the signature to be taken off and used to sign another document
2. Public encryption can be expensive and the message can be arbritrarily long. a hash function is short and finite
3. all! 
	1- unforgeable 2-authentic 3- no repudiation 4- tamperproof 5-not reusable

LECTURE 54
1. it establishes a trust relationship among the parties
2. so that Z knows the identity of y is trustworthy; vouching 
3. To know the data was not altered or corrupted
4. Then there wouldn’t be a point in X signing with it’s private key

LECTURE 55
1. An authority everyone trusts ex: notary public
2. How long is the validity go for; is this certificate expired?
3. Then the certificate is not correct/ not valid or real

LECTURE 56
1. one time pad
2. the secure communication the two parties are trying to create can be compromised
3. don’t share keys
4. An eavesdropper who has stored the 3 messages can XOR combinations of them to get M Ka and Kb : XOR 
message 1 with message 3
5. (same as number 4) if he XOR two of the messages anything that is the same will cancel out : after getting the message XOR it with message 1 to get Ka
6. XOR msg 1 with msg 2
7. because even some famous protocols have flaws in them

LECTURE 57
1. Sending an e-mail or moving a file: protocols control the syntax, semantics, and synchronization
2. cryptographic protocols help achieve the protocol goals
3. public key infrustructure
4. to communicate from A->B
5.Yes; the only way B can confirm they recieved the message is to use his  key to excrypt the message he sent
6. Message from B could not really be from B because there is no nounce.

LECTURE 58
1. for efficiency
2. to know when it is appropriate to encrypt and how crucial encrypting it will be

LECTURE 59
because typically the best attack is something we haven;t thought of and is purposely difficult to evaluate
2. corruption of files
3. yes; is an attacker sends false information pretending to be someone else
4. “its hard to specify” 
5. the nature of systems are distributed and must be designed so that messages are sent then recieved before a protocol can be put in place/ action

LECTURE 60
1. No, it uses/ relys on symmetric protocols and without keys shows freshnesa dn coorolates two messages together.
2. 
   -1. what is the sender trying to say with this message?
   generate keys for me please!
   -2. what is the reciever entitiled to believe? 
   that he is participating in NS

LECTURE 61
1. It is possible for A to send a message to B
2. No
3. restart the protocol when it is compromised

LECTURE 62
1. That when A sends a message to be the communication channel exist and A will know that B has recieved the message.
2. Needham-Schroeder tells both ends of the conversation that the last message is recieved or not.
3. Maybe you can have A check to see if they did send the message.

LECTURE 63
1. Because it validates that the protocol is running in the correct way.
2. The session identifier in addition to nonces.
3. The belief comes from the fact that there are specific sequential steps that must take place for the connection to be established between two people or servers

LECTURE 64
1. Is a type of formal logic that extends classical propositional and predicate logic to include operators expressing modality.
2. If A believes (A share(K)B) and A sees {X}k then A believes (B said X).
3. If A believes X is fresh and A believes B once said X, then A believes B believes X.
4. If A believes B has jurisdiction over X and A believes X, then A believes X.
5. Idealization is the process of getting protocol steps to logical inferences.

LECTURE 65
1. plaintext cannot be forged
2. It depends on the interpretation of the meaning of some steps. 
3. One purpose of idealization is to omit parts of the message that do not contribute to the beliefs of the recipients. Idealization of the protocol is not defined unambigiuosly. 


