CS361 Questions: Week 2

Aaron Dishman
utid: adishman
cs login: adishman
email: aaron.dishman@utexas.edu

These questions relate to Modules 4, 5, 6 and 7. Type your answers and submit
them via email to Dr. Young by 5pm on Thursday, June 19.
The questions marked with a dagger (†) require external research and may be more
extensive and time consuming. You don’t have to do them for the assignment but,
but you may want to do them to increase your knowledge of the subject matter.
Lecture 17
1. If a computer system complies with the BLP model, does it necessarily
comply with non-interference? Why or why not?
	Not necessarily, because in BLP, S1 —> S2 & S2 —> S3 implies S1 —> S3,
	which wouldn’t necessarily be true for a non-interference policy.

2. What would the NI policy be for a BLP system with subjects: A at (Secret:
Crypto), B at (Secret: Nuclear)?
	A |—| B && B |—| A

3. Can covert channels exist in an NI policy? Why or why not?
	They are not supposed to, because the whole idea behind NI is that information
	doesn’t flow to where it is not supposed to.

4. If the NI policy is A− > B, in a BLP system what combinations of the
levels “high” and “low” could A and B have?
	A is low, B is high, or they should be equal…

Lecture 18
Why do NI policies better resemble metapolicies than policies?
	Because they are less specific in their restrictions and the details 
	of enabling the stated goals.

2. What would be L’s view of the following actions: h1, l1, h2, h3, . . . , hj,
l2, l3, . . . , lk
	On a provable NI system, L’s view would be l1, l2, l3, … , lk
	On a system that is not NI, it would be different, possible viewing some
	h actions…

3. What is difficult about proving NI for realistic systems?
	low level attributes: hard to prove and implement at the lower level, and many 		interferences are benign, like encrypted files.	


Lecture 19
Explain the importance of integrity in various contexts.
	integrity can be damaged without interaction with the external world. relates to 
	how much you trust an entity to produce, protect, or modify.

2. Why would a company or individual opt to purchase commercial software
rather than download a similar, freely available version?
	you might not trust the intentions of the maker of the free version. they must be 
	getting something out of it, perhaps by corrupting your data’s integrity

3. Explain the difference between separation of duty and separation of function.
	separation of function requires that one individual can’t per form 2 different 		critical functions, but SoD involves 2 individuals completing a single function
	

4. What is the importance of auditing in integrity contexts?
	to make sure that if something bad does happen, can assign responsibility 
	and roll back before a problem occurred.

5. What are the underlying ideas that raise the integrity concerns of Lipner?
	commercial data integrity.
	users should not write their own programs
	programmers don’t operate on actual data

6. Name a common scenario where integrity would be more important than
confidentiality.
	Integrity concerns are often more important than confidentiality concerns in 		commercial settings like bank and their tellers, managers, etc…

Lecture 20
1. Give examples of information that is highly reliable with little sensitivity
and information that is not so highly reliable but with greater sensitivity.
	Hi integrity, low  confidentiality: reputable newspapers
	Low integrity, hi confidentiality: information from police informants

2. Explain the dominates relationships for each row in the table on slide 4.
	Row1: Expert{Physics} dominates Student{Physics}, therefore, expert can
	write to Student, but not vice versa.
	Row2: Neither dominates the other. Thought Expert{Physics} dominates 
	Novice{Physics}, it has nothing to do with {Art}, neither can write to each other
	Row3: Student{Art} dominates Novice{}, and can write to it.

3. Construct the NI policy for the integrity metapolicy.
	Hi —> Low

4. What does it mean that confidentiality and integrity are “orthogonal issues?”
	It means that, though in many ways they are similar, they must be treated and 
	dealt with differently

Lecture 21
Why is Biba Integrity called the “dual” of the BLP model?
	because everything is the same except the direction of the arrows, or, that in 
	the case of a matrix, the reads and writes are swapped.

2. Why in the ACM on slide 5 is the entry for Subj3 - Obj3 empty?
	because neither subject nor object dominate each other

3. If a subject satisfies confidentiality requirements but fails integrity requirements
of an object, can the subject access the object?
	it depends../

Lecture 22
What is the assumption about subjects in Biba’s low water mark policy?
	Not trusted a lot…they can only read at their level or above, and only 
	write at their level or below

2. Are the subjects considered trustworthy?
	not especially

3. Does the Ring policy make some assumption about the subject that the
LWM policy does not?
	more trustworthy…allowed to read anything

4. Are the subjects considered trustworthy?
	more so than low water policy

Lecture 23
Are the SD and ID categories in Lipner’s model related to each other?
	They are both under development

2. Why is it necessary for system controllers to have to ability to downgrade?
	because the idea behind Lipner’s model is to create a wall between development
	and use, but in a system, you need to be able to transfer the code through the
	wall

3. Can system controllers modify development code/test data?
	yes

4. What form of tranquility underlies the downgrade ability?
	weak tranquility
Lecture 24
What is the purpose of the four fundamental concerns of Clark and Wilson?
	To categorize the main needs in a commercial integrity model

2. What are some possible examples of CDIs in a commercial setting?
	bank balances, checks, etc..

3. What are some possible examples of UDIs in a commercial setting?
	pieces of candy 

4. What is the difference between certification and enforcement rules?
	certification involves lower level details between objects and subjects,
	enforcement tends to be higher level ideas behind ensuring policies

5. Give an example of a permission in a commercial setting.
	bank teller authorized to perform deposits on user accounts

Lecture 25
1. Why would a consultant hired by American Airlines potentially have a
breach of confidentiality if also hired by United Airlines?
	because they are competitors, and the consultant could carry confidential 
	proprietary information from one company to the next

2. In the example conflict classes, if you accessed a file from GM, then subsequently
accessed a file from Microsoft, will you then be able to access
another file from GM?
	Yes, because these companies are not in the same conflict class

3. Following the previous question, what companies’ files are available for
access according to the simple security rule?
	GM and Microsoft, or any company that is not in the same conflict class
	as GM and Microsoft

4. What differences separate the Chinese Wall policy from the BLP model?
	designed to address a very specific concern: conflicts of interest by a consultant
	or contractor

Lecture 26
1. What benefits are there in associating permissions with roles, rather than
subjects?
	a person can take on more than one role and therefore have more access 
	during a time frame…more flexibility

2. What is the difference between authorized roles and active roles?
	authorized roles refer to the roles a given user is allowed to play. active roles
	are those that a user is currently playing.

3. What is the difference between role authorization and transaction authorization?
	role authorization refers to a users ability to play a role, transaction authorization
	refers to whether or not a given transaction is allowed for one of the active roles 

4. What disadvantages do standard access control policies have when compared
to RBAC?
	not as flexible

Lecture 27
1. Why would one NOT want to build an explicit ACM for an access control
system?
	because most subjects don’t have any access to most objects

2. Name, in order, the ACM alternatives for storing permissions with objects,
storing permissions with subjects and computing permissions on the fly.
	compute it on the fly, 
	store permissions with objects in an ACL
	store permissions with subjects in capability based system

Lecture 28
1. What must be true for the receiver to interpret the answer to a “yes” or “no”
question?
	an agreed upon code

2. Why would one want to quantify the information content of a message?
	In order to compress or encode the data to send it more efficiently

3. Why must the sender and receiver have some shared knowledge and an
agreed encoding scheme?
	otherwise you wouldn’t be able to decode the information

4. Why wouldn’t the sender want to transmit more data than the receiver needs
to resolve uncertainty?
	because you have limited resources

5. If the receiver knows the answer to a question will be “yes,” how many bits
of data quantify the information content? Explain.
	none, if the receiver knows the answer, knowledge doesn’t really get 
	transferred
	
Lecture 29
1. How much information is contained in each of the first three messages from
slide 2?
	1) n bits
	2) at least 4 bits
	3) at least 7 bits

2. Why does the amount of information contained in “The attack is at dawn”
depend on the receiver’s level of uncertainty?
	because if the only uncertainty were whether at dawn or dusk: one bit
	If the attack could have come anytime during the day: ? bits
	If the day was uncertain...: ? bits

3. How many bits of information must be transmitted for a sender to send one
of exactly 16 messages? Why?
	4 bits, because 2^4 equals 16

4. How much information content is contained in a message from a space of
256 messages?
	8 bits of information

5. Explain why very few circumstances are ideal, in terms of sending information
content.
	because you usually cannot know in advance how many messages could be sent
	so uncertainty is usually higher than ideal

Lecture 30
Explain the difference between the two connotations of the term “bit.”
	bit1 : binary digit (discrete)
	bit2:  quantity of information (continuous)

2. Construct the naive encoding for 8 possible messages.
	000, 001, 010, 011, 100, 101, 110, 111 
3. Explain why the encoding on slide 5 takes 995 + (5 * 5) bits.
	because out of 1000 messages, on average, 999 of them will be a single bit,
	but 5 of the messages will be 5 bits long.

4. How can knowing the prior probabilities of messages lead to amore efficient
encoding?
	because you can use the probability of messages occurrence to encode more
	probable messages to be fewer bits

5. Construct an encoding for 4 possible messages that is worse than the naive
encoding.
	for 4 possibilities, you only need 2 bits at most, so anything that uses more than 		4 bits, like a 32 bit integer to encode 4 possibilities

6. What are some implications if it is possible to find an optimal encoding?
		you would need to know the future to know what is optimal

Lecture 31
Name a string in the language consisting of positive, even numbers.
	“2462”

2. Construct a non-prefix-free encoding for the possible rolls of a 6-sided die.
	1, 10, 101, 1010, 10101, 101010

3. Why is it necessary for an encoding to be uniquely decodable?
	to be able to know what character is being encoded

4. Why is a lossless encoding scheme desirable?
	so that a whole message can be received

5. Why doesn’t Morse code satisfy our criteria for encodings?
	because it is not streaming

Lecture 32
Calculate the entropy of an 8-sided, fair die (all outcomes are equally likely).
	h = -(1/8 x log1/8 + 1/8 x log1/8 + 1/8 x log1/8 + 1/8 x log1/8 + 1/8 x log1/8 + 1/8 		x log1/8 + 1/8 x log1/8 + 1/8 x log1/8) = -(log(1/8)) = 3

2. If an unbalanced coin is 4 times more likely to yield a tail than a head, what
is the entropy of the language?
	H | x
	T | 4x
	 5x = 1 => x = 1/5
	h = -(1/5 log 1/5 + 4/5 log 4/5) 
3. Why is knowing the entropy of a language important?
	because it tells you the best possible encoding of a language

Lecture 33
Explain the reasoning behind the expectations presented in slide 3.
	 it’s likely that you will get HH 9 times out of 16 2Flips
				         HT 3
				         TH 3
				         TT 1

2. Explain why the total expected number of bits is 27 in the example presented
in slide 4.
	because you add up the number of bits required for each encoding

3. What is the naive encoding for the language in slide 5?
	3 bits long binary

4. What is the entropy of this language?
	h = -2(1/10log1/10 + 3/10log3/10 + 6/10log6/10)

5. Find an encoding more efficient than the naive encoding for this language.
	1 = 00
	2 = 01
	3 = 100
	4 = 101
	5 = 110
	6 = 111

6. Why is your encoding more efficient than the naive encoding?
	because the higher probability numbers have fewer bits
