

Lec 17 - 1.If a computer system complies with the BLP model, does it necessarily comply with non-interference? Why or why not? [-+] I believe Yes because any MLS policy can be turned into a NI security, and BLP is an example of an MLS policy. [Wait, actually if it complies with BLP it might still modify some system attributes.]
2. What would the NI policy be for a BLP system with subjects: A at (Secret: Crypto), B at (Secret: Nuclear)? Here their Need to know is different so there should not be any flow of information between the two.
3. Can covert channels exist in a NI policy? Why or why not? No because we specify which subjects are allowed to interfere with others.
4. If the NI policy is A −> B, in a BLP system what combinations of the levels “high” and “low” could A and B have? + B is high A is low, B is high A is high, B is low, A is Low.
Lec 18 - 
1. Why do NI policies better resemble metapolicies than policies? Because they describe the fundamental goal (whether information should flow), without describing the specific implementation to achieve it.	
2. What would be L’s view of the following actions: h1, l1, h2, h3, . . . ,hj, l2, l3, . . . , lk? It would be l1, l2, l3, lk 
3. What is difﬁcult about proving NI for realistic systems? We would have to have a model of the system at very low level to be able to prove that And most realistic systems have a lot of potential interferences.
lec 19 -
1.  Allows to know how trustworthy information is. So we know for instance that a website we are connecting to is the correct one, the amount of money reflected in our bank statement is accurate, etc/
2.  Because we trust that the output of the commercial software has been carefully implement so that it is accurate
3. Explain the difference between separation of duty and separation of function? + Same duty needs two person. Same person cannot have two duties
4. What is the importance of auditing in integrity contexts? Ensuring that the information can be recovered and accounted for
5. Integrity can be more important than confidentiality and to achieve it, users don’t write their programs, processes are controlled, managers have access to system logs, etc.
6.  Purchasing public stocks for instance. People can know about it, but we should be able to trust that the numbers are correct 
Lec -20
1. Allows to know how trustworthy information is. So we know for instance that a website we are connecting to is the correct one, the amount of money reflected in our bank statement is accurate, etc/
2. Because we trust that the output of the commercial software has been carefully implement so that it is accurate
3. Same duty needs two person (two tellers for one  significant transaction). Same person cannot have two complementary functions (auditor, and record keeper)
4. Ensuring that the information can be recovered and accounted for
5. Integrity can be more important than confidentiality and to achieve it, users don’t write their programs, processes are controlled, managers have access to system logs, etc.
6. Purchasing public stocks for instance. People can know about it, but we should be able to trust that the numbers are correct 
Lec - 21 
 1. Because it is the dual of them, whereas we have simply changed the direction of the arrow. Same rule, opposite order.
 2. Because neither read and write is defined for subjects 3 on obj3: “same level of expertise, but different areas of expertise”.
 3. No it would not be possible.
Lec - 22 
1. The assumption about subjects in Biba’s low are water mark policy 2. The subjects considered trustworthy
3. The Ring policy make some assumption about the subject that the LWM policy does not 4. In this case the subjects are considered trustworthy
Lec 23 -
1. The SD and ID categories in Lipner’s model are related to each other 2. It is necessary for system controllers to have to ability to downgrade
3. System controllers can modify development code/test data
Lec 24 -
 1. The purpose of the four fundamental concerns of Clark and Wilson 2. Some of the possible examples of CDIs in a commercial setting
3. Possible examples of UDIs in a commercial setting 4. Difference between certiﬁcation and enforcement rules
5. Give an example of a permission in a commercial setting
Lec 25 - 
1. We would want a consultant hired by American Airlines potentially have a breach of conﬁdentiality if also hired by United Airlines
2.In the example conﬂict classes, if you accessed a ﬁle from GM, then subsequently accessed a ﬁle from Microsoft, will you then be able to access another ﬁle from GM 3. Following the previous question, what companies’ ﬁles are available for access according to the simple security rule
4. What differences separate the Chinese Wall policy from the BLP model
Lec 26 -
1. The beneﬁts are there in associating permissions with roles, rather than subjects 3. What is the difference between role authorization and transaction authorization
4. The disadvantages do standard access control policies have when compared to RBAC
Lec 27 -
1. Why would one not want to build an explicit ACM for an access control system
2. Name, in order, the ACM alternatives for storing permissions with objects, storing permissions with subjects and computing permissions on the ﬂy.
Lec 28 -
1. It must be true for the receiver to interpret the answer to a “yes” or “no” question 2. We would one want to quantify the information content of a message
3. We must the sender and receiver have some shared knowledge and an agreed encoding scheme 4. We wouldn’t the sender want to transmit more data than the receiver needs to resolve uncertainty
5. The receiver knows the answer to a question will be “yes,” how many bits of data quantify the information content
Lec 29 -
1. Information is contained in each of the ﬁrst three messages from slide 2 2. The amound of information contained in “The attack is at dawn” depend on the receiver’s level of uncertainty 3. 23 bits of information must be transmitted for a sender to send one of exactly 16 messages? Why
4. Information content is contained in a message from a space of 256 messages
Lec 30 -
1. Explain the difference between the two connotations of the term “bit.” 2. Construct the naive encoding for 8 possible messages.
3. Explain why the encoding on slide 5 takes 995 + (5 * 5) bits.
4. How can knowing the prior probabilities of messages lead to a more efﬁcient encoding 5. Construct an encoding for 4 possible messages that is worse than the naive encoding.
6. What are some implications if it is possible to ﬁnd an optimal encoding
Lec 31 -
1. Name a string in the language consisting of positive, even numbers. 2. Construct a non-preﬁx-free encoding for the possible rolls of a 6-sided die.
3. It is necessary for an encoding to be uniquely decodable 4. Because it ensures that all the pertinent data is there.
5. Morse code satisfy our criteria for encodings
Lec 32 
1. The BLP rules are supposed to enforce the metapolicy in the
example on slide 1. 	2. The READ and WRITE operations given satisfy BLP. Read down, write up.
3. Argue that the CREATE and DESTROY operations given satisfy BLP. + They don't violate it. No read of object down, write up
Lec 33 -
1.The operation create does not tell that fact, we have to infer it after the fact. 2. For that attribute, there is a mechanism by which someone can modify, and someone can reference (provide info) it, which is all we need for a cover channel. Then u can c if it's really there.
3. these are different attributes, so the referencing and manipulating of the software won't work 4.  Level L1 dominates Level L2, and Set 1 is a superset of S2. 

