Name: 	 Gerardo Gamboa
EID: 	 gg8745
CSLogin: jergamb
E-mail:  ggambo_13@utexas.edu

CS361 Questions: Week 3

Lecture 34
1. Because you may not have a perfect encoding. You can always get close to the entropy but you have to work harder.

2. Eventually you will get the bandwidth to transmit the message over the noisy channel. Like the example trying to tell your friend something in a noisy room. If you keep yelling it out, he will eventually hear you. 

Lecture 35
1. h = -(log1/10)

2. It can be hard because there are many different words that one can use to mean something. It would have to depend on the person’s language which then will always be different.

3. The first-order model calculates entropy with one symbol per frequency. It assumes all symbols are independent of one another. The second model groups characters up by diagrams because some letters follow other letters frequently. The third-order calculates entropy by adding triagrams. 

Lecture 36
1. The information content of a message depends on the state of knowledge of the receiver. Hence, entropy is relative to a particular observer.

2. The more the listener knows, the less information you have to convey to reduce their uncertainty. 

3. Entropy can be used to measure the amount of “redundancy” in the encoding. If the information content of a message is equal to the length of the encoded message, there is no redundancy. 

Lecture 37
1. 8 seems to be a very common letter because it is seen in the code many times. There are no letters in the code. 

2. You could decrypt the a piece of code one letter at a time. This could happen in examples such as a simple substitution encryption. 

3. Hiding the content in a systematic way. The purpose of encryption is to render the message less useful / meaningful to any eavesdropper. 

4. Redundancy can be used to tell about any regularities and can be used to help anybody trying to decrypt the message. The attacker can then figure our what the message was. 

Lecture 38
1. if C = E(P), P = D(C), and P = D(E(P)).
	so, D(E(P))
	    D(C)
	    P

2. if C = E(P, KE) and P = D(C, Kd), and P = D(E(P,KE), Kd).
	so, D(E(C, KE),KD)
	    D(E(D, KD)
	    C

3. Because redundancy is the enemy of secure encryption because it provides leverage to the attacker. 

4. If you know that certain letters or combinations have high frequencies in the language, then it may be easier to decrypt a message. 
	

Lecture 39
1. Most encryption algorithms are breakable since the analyst can try all keys systematically. Being breakable doesn’t mean that it’s feasible to break. 

2. You do a linear search and on average you will find it half way through.

3. They are the two simplest building blocks of encryption. Almost all modern commercial symmetric ciphers use some combination of substitution and transposition for encryption.

4. Confusion is defined as transforming information in plaintext so that an interceptor cannot readily extract it. Diffusion is defined as spreading the information from a region of plaintext widely over the cipher text.

5. I believe diffusion would be better because it would be spread out widely over the cipher-text.

Lecture 40
1. A monoalphabetic cipher is a substitution cipher in which the cipher alphabet is fixed through the encryption process. A polyalphabetic cipher is a substitution cipher in which the cipher alphabet changes during the encryption process. 

2. The key is however you specify the mapping you give the letters. It will be a table will the entire mapping for the whole alphabet. 

3. There are only a finite number of mappings. This means thats it is breakable and not strong. 

4. The key will be a table of mappings in which each letter is replaced in the encryption by another letter a fixed “distance” away in the alphabet. The key will based on the fixed “distance” away from the letter.

5. The keyspace will be either 26 or 25.

6. No it is a weak algorithm. 

7. The Vigenere Cipher is an example of a polyalphabetic cipher, sometimes called a running key cipher because the key is another text. 

Lecture 41
1. 26^3. 

2. It went from 26^3 to 26*25 because it was a simple substitution.

3. Yes because there would be no reduction from search when you know the encryption algorithm and cipher. 

Lecture 42
1. The key is the same size as the plaintext.

2. Once you know the anything about the key, you can eliminate half the possibilities. 

3. The receiving end must know the entire key. You need a secure channel, but if you have this what is the point of having a key or encrypting your message. 

Lecture 43
1. They aren’t very strong by themselves. 

Lecture 44
1. symmetric

2. Key distribution is defined as how we covey keys to those who need them to establish secure communication. Key management is defined as when given a large number of keys, we preserve their safety and make them available as needed.

3. No that is just the public key; you need the public and private key to decrypt. 

4. Public key systems solve the key distribution problem.

Lecture 45
1. Block ciphers are stronger.

2. Malleability is a bad thing. It can corrupt the meaning of a message, and not appear in plaintext.

3. There is only one possible way to get it decrypted.

Lecture 46
1. subBytes - for every byte, substitute it with a value stored in the location of a 256 element lookup table.
   mixColumns - for each column, replace the column by its value multiplied by a fixed 4 x 4 matrix of integers. 
   addRoundKey - XOR the state with a 128-bit round key derived from the original key by a recursive process. 

2. shiftRows: shift R0 in the state left 0 bytes (i.e., no change); 
   shift R1 left 1 byte; shift R2 left 2 bytes; shift R3 left 3 bytes.

3. Because inverting the mixColumns step requires multiplying each column by the inverse of the array used to encrypt which makes it a little slower.

4. The block positions are used for substitution of values. These values are in a 256 element lookup table. The rounds are used to make the decryption harder for anyone who does not have the key. 

5. Because by increasing the total number of rounds, it increases confusion and diffusion even more. 

Lecture 47
1. Identical blocks in the plaintext yield identical blocks in the cipher text.

2. Do something to “randomize” blocks before they’re encrypted so that it is harder to decode the original message for eavesdroppers. 

3. An attacker able to observe changes to cipher text over time will be able to spot the first block that changed. If an attacker can find two identical cipher text blocks, he can derive the information about two plaintext blocks. 

4. In key stream generation modes the cipher is used more as a pseudorandom number generator. The result is a key stream that can be used as in one-time pad. Block encryption modes generate cipher text that stores the message in encrypted but recoverable. 

Lecture 48 
1. The users private key must be kept secret. 

2. Because it is easily computable as well as difficult to invert without additional information. 

3. Its ok to have the public key encryption and its ok if other people can get the key because you are the only one that can decrypt it. 

4. {{{P}k-1}k}k-1 = {{P}k-1}

5. Symmetric encryption remains the work horse of commercial cryptography, with asymmetric encryption playing some important special functions. Asymmetric algorithms are generally much less efficient than symmetric algorithms. 

Lecture 49
1. Yes it would still work. You can use either key to decrypt and the other to encrypt because the keys are used in a sort of symmetric fashion.

2. You need two prime numbers for generating a RSA key pair. If you are able to factorize the public key and find these prime numbers, you will then be able to find the private key. 

3. Yes

4. Because the only way to decrypt it is by having the private key of the user who encrypted the message.

5. Because they are signing it with their key but the original message does not have the key signature within the brackets.

6. Because the key signature outside of the message has B’s private key.

7. Because anyone can get the B’s public key and decode the message, but now you won’t know where it came from. 

8. An example would be {{M}Ka-1} Kb. This works for both because the only way the message could be decrypted is by B using their private key.

Lecture 50
1. The values need to be accessible to everyone. The act of hashing isn’t meant to be alluding. 

2. Strong collision resistance means it is hard to find two messages that a hash function will map to.

3. Preimage resistant - given a hash value, its hard to find a message that hashes to that hash value. Second preimage resistant - given a message its hard to find another message different from the first that hashes to the same hash value.

4. You’d have to look at 1.25 * 2^64 hash values

5. You’d have to look at 1.25 * 2680 hash values.

6. Hash functions can not be used to encrypt data and decrypt because it is not possible to recreate the original message from a hash value. Since you are going from an infinite source of messages to a finite number of hash values it is impossible to accurately recreate the original message.

7. The attribute of preimage resistance makes it likely that any change to the message would result in a different hash value. Therefore message M is bound to the hash value H(M).

8. You could hash a message then use RSA public key to encrypt it before transmitting. On the other side the recipient could decrypt it with the private key then apply the hash function on the message to make sure the file had not changed.

Lecture 51
1. No because S cannot send {{K}ks-1}kr-1 because S would not have access to R’s private key.

2. No because S cannot do the encryptions in the other order because anyone could strip the outer level of encryption off and R would no longer know that S was the original sender. 

3. No.

4. Key exchange needs confidentiality and authentication.

Lecture 52
1. Nothing would happen because they would not be able to determine the key.

2. Then they would be able to determine the key by intercepting Bob’s transmission.

3. They would be able to determine the key by intercepting Alice’s transmission.




