Name:drew zoellner
EID:dtz64
CS Login:drew2222
Email:andrewzoellner@hotmail.com


CS361 Questions: Week 1

Lecture 1
1. What uses of the term “security” are relevant to your every
day life?

Homeland security protects people from international threats. Mall security
 protects people from danger in a smaller vacinity.

2. What do these have in common?

These securities have the idea of protection in common. They both protect
people.

3. Have you been a victim of lax security?

9/11 has caused me to be a victim of lax security.

4. What is the likelihood that your laptop is infected? How di
d you decide?

I think it is unlikely since I see no apparent change, but it is possible that
 there is something working behind the scenes.

5. What security measures do you employ on your laptop?

I have anti-virus software that runs from time to time. I choose good passwords.

6. Do you think they are probably effective?

I think choosing good passwords is effective, but since my antivirus software
has yet to find a threat it is possible that its not working effectively.

7. Consider the quote from the FBI official on slide 10. Do you t
hink it over-
states the case? Justify your answer.

Yes, while they might be correct the solution they propose isn't an option. 
While security might be very difficult to perfect it should be able to be
maximized.

8. What is the importance in learning about computer securit
y?

To uphold the confidentiality and integrity of data and software of companies
that may be future employers.

Lecture 2
1. Consider the five reasons given why security is hard. Can yo
u think of other
factors?

A reason security can be so difficult is because there are potentially many
more people trying to break into the system that those creating the system. Also
it might be possible for a trick discovered in the future to penetrate a system
because when created the trick was unknown.

2. Is there a systematic way to enumerate the “bad things” tha
t might happen
to a program? Why or why not?

No, because even thought one might list all possible covert channels there may 
be other problems that could happen with hardware or even other software hacks
that haven't been thought of today.

3. Explain the asymmetry between the defender and attacker i
n security.

The defender has to find and plug ALL the holes in a system while the attacker
just has to find one. The defender has to maintain functionability despite being
able to make the system more secure while the attacker only cares about finding 
flaws in the security.

4. Examine the quotes from Morris and Chang. Do you agree? Why
or why
not?

I agree that their solutions are valid, but a practical level of security can
reduce risk low enough for profitable uses of computers.

5. Explain the statement on slide 8 that a tradeoff is typical
ly required.

A completely secure system is easy to achieve if the system doesn't have to 
accomplish anything. As soon as the system has to do something meaningful then
there is a shift from completely secure to as secure as possible, this is the
tradeoff that is explained in slide 8.

Lecture 3
1. Define “risk”?

Risk is any chance or posssibility that something you don't want to happen can
happen.

2. Do you agree that software security is about managing risk?
3. Name and explain a risk you accept, one you avoid, one you mi
tigate, and
one you transfer?

A risk I accept is the risk of getting into a car crash because I drive knowing
that crashing is a possibility. I avoid the risk of breaking limbs skateboarding
by not skateboarding. I mitigate the risk of going broke while betting on sports
by diversifying my betting portfolio. I transfer risk to my neighbors by putting
up a sign in my lawn that says I have a home security system so burglers will
target my neighbors instead.

4. Evaluate annualized loss expectancy as a risk management
tool.

This is a good tool but by no means the only information one should use when 
assessing risk. Sure finding the expected value of each option is good, but some
options with unrealistic probability or extremely high consequences that can 
lead to other consequences should also be taken into consideration.

5. List some factors relevant to rational risk assessment.

Can one choice of action lead to going completely broke. Can one choice have 
ethical or moral repricussions to consider.

Lecture 4
1. Explain the key distinction between the lists on slides 2 and 3.

The list on slide 2 are goals to be accomplished to maintain security of a
system while the list on slide 3 contains ways of maintaining these goals.

2. Consider your use of computing in your personal life. Whic
h is most im-
portant: confidentiality, integrity, availability? Justi
fy your answer.

Integrity is most important because without it, someone could log into 
wellsfargo and change my account balance to zero.

3. What does it mean “to group and categorize data”?

Grouping and categorizing data means differentiating data or files by how 
closely the security system needs to protect them. There might be a high level 
of security for a certain file that can only be read by top secret agents.

4. Why might authorizations change over time?

Authorizations may change over time because for example someone might change
from being a citizen to a president and therefore need access to top level
data and files.

5. Some of the availability questions seem to relate more to r
eliability than to
security. How are the two related?

A system that is not secure can be thought to have bad realiability. This is
true because for example in an unsecure system someone can change the data that 
a user has saved to his or her profile. Next time that user logs on, the system
won't function as planned using the users saved data and would therefore be
unreliable.

6. In what contexts would authentication and non-repudiati
on be considered
important?

Any banking system rely heavily on authentication and non - repudiation to some
extent. If someone were trying to log onto someone elses bank account they would
need proper authentication to gain access. Also, someone can't go around buying
a bunch of items and constantly claiming it wasn't them or the bank would run 
out of money.

Lecture 5
1. Describe a possible metapolicy for a cell phone network? A
military database?

For a cell phone network a metapolicy might be that data from one user can't
be viewed by another without permission. For example sending a text is
permission. In a military database a metapolicy might be that data can only flow
upwards to higher ranking officials (confidentiality).

2. Why do you need a policy if you have a metapolicy?
3. Give three possible rules within a policy concerning stud
ents’ academic
records.

No student can access another students grades. No student can change his or hers
grades. All student must be able to access their grades at any time.

4. Could stakeholders’ interest conflict in a policy? Give an
example.

Yes, if a stakeholder is trying to manipulate public stocks for a company they
could deem a certain peice of information like earnings as highly classified
and a policy could be introduced to hide this type of information.

5. For the example given involving student SSNs, state the li
kely metapolicy.

SSN should not be available to anyone except the student and necessary
university personel.

6. Explain the statement: ”If you don’t understand the metap
olicy, it becomes
difficult to justify and evaluate the policy.”

It's hard to understand if a certain rule is helpful and working in achieving a
certain metapolicy if the metapolicy isn't understood. This makes sense because
one can't create a rule or evaluate a rule if they don't know what the rule is
supposed to accomplish.

Lecture 6
1. Why is military security mainly about confidentiality? Ar
e there also as-
pects of integrity and availability?

A commander must require some level of availability of information to do his
job. Also, a rogue commander must not be able to change files the military's
enemies want him to change so integrity is also a concern. The main focus is
on confidentiality because the asset of the military that contains the highest
risk is the confidentiality of the data.

2. Describe the major threat in our MLS thought experiment.

The biggest threat to the experiment is a low level subject gaining access to
high level information.

3. Why do you think the proviso is there?

The proviso is there to prevent this major threat described above form happening.
Information can only flow up, so no high level information can be obtained by
low level officials.

4. Explain the form of the labels we’re using.

The labels have a security level and a union of categories necessary by the
subject on a need to know basis.

5. Why do you suppose we’re not concerned with how the labels g
et there?

Adding the labels to the subjects and objects don't cause any flow of
information, so it's not a concern to security, only access is.

6. Rank the facts listed on slide 6 by sensitivity.

*Highest to lowest*
Normandy invasion, British broke german codes
Jones got a raise, Smith didn't get a raise
Softball schedule, Cafeteria lunch menu

7. Invent labels for documents containing each of those facts.

(Top Secret; (invasion, broke codes))
(Secret; (jones raise, smith no raise))
(Classified; (softball, cafeteria))

8. Justify the rules for “mixed” documents.

You always want the mixed documents to have the highest clearance of all the 
data in the document. It's better for some low level person not to see the 
lunch menu than for someone to see the normandy invasion date that wasn't
supposed to.

Lecture 7
1. Document labels are stamped on the outside. How are “label
s” affixed to
humans?

A human might carry around a badge that contains his or her clearance level
and the list of subjects they should be concerned with.

2. Explain the difference in semantics of labels for documen
ts and labels for
humans.

They are the same, but the humans labels are checked to see if they have
dominance over the documents when access is granted or not. Humans have a
clearance while documents require a clearance. Humans have a list of subjects
they need to know about while documents list all subjects contained within.

3. In the context of computers what do you think are the analog
ues of docu-
ments? Of humans?

Programs or applications are humans while files and data are documents.

4. Explain why the Principle of Least Privilege makes sense.

This makes sense because if people only have access to the data that they need
to know to do their job, then there is a less liklihood that data is leaked 
and if there is a voluntary data leak like in the military example, this risk
is minimized by using the principle of least privilege.

5. For each of the pairs of labels on slide 6, explain why the an
swers in the third column do or do not make sense.

The first one makes sense since the subject has a higher clearance level and
therefore dominates the object. The second one makes sense too because someone
at a secret level can't obtain top secret information. The third makes sense 
aswell since the dominance relation holds for the subject over the object.

Lecture 8:
1. Why do you think we introduced the vocabulary terms: objec
ts, subjects,
actions?

This is to generalize the examples we worked through so that students could see
how they applied to computers.

2. Prove that dominates is a partial order (reflexive, transi
tive, antisymmetric).

It's transitive because if A dominates B and B dominates C, then A dominates C.
This is always true since the dominance relation has two parts that are both 
transitive. Dominates is reflexive because in the dominance relation things
always dominates itself. Its antisymmetric because for all combinations there
is no two subject and object where one dominates the other and the other also 
dominates the first.

3. Show that dominates is not a total order.

It's not a total order because two things can have the same clearance and the
same categories thus making each dominate the other.

4. What would have to be true for two labels to dominate each ot
her?

They would have to be the same labels.

5. State informally what the the Simple Security property sa
ys.

Subjects can only read down from their security clearance.

6. Explain why it’s “only if” and not “if and only if.”

The information can only be read if the security clearance is higher or at least
equal to the security of the label on the object. There might be other things
required for the subject to go through in order to read the object, but this 
condition is at least required. It's a condition but not a sufficient condition.

Lecture 9
1. Why isn’t Simple Security enough to ensure confidentialit
y?

Someone might write down and confidentiality would be broken, so the *-property
must be invoked.

2. Why do we need constraints on write access?

To control the flow of information, writing down would go against the metapolicy.

3. What is it about computers, as opposed to human beings, tha
t makes that particularly important?

A person's computer might have multiple applications running at the person's
clearance level and may do things that the person didn't necessarily know about
or want to do.

4. State informally what the *-Property says.

Writes should be restricted to higher security levels so that the flow of
information abides by the metapolicy.

5. What must be true for a subject to have both read and write ac
cess to an object?

It must have similar security level and subject content as the object.

6. How could we deal with the problem that the General (top sec
ret) can’t send orders to the private (Unclassified)?

We could move the general down to unclassified on a different account and have 
him send a message from there.

7. Isn’t it a problem that a corporal can overwrite the war pla
n? Suggest how we might deal with that.

What we could do to prevent this from being a problem is creating a backup of 
highly classified material. Also, we could restrict writing to the same level
as the subject has clearance.

Lecture 10:
1. Evaluate changing a subject’s level (up or down) in light o
f weak tranquility.

A subject level that is increased allows him read access higher than what he
should have access to. Lowering a subjects level could allow him to write
to levels that were previously below him, causing in bad information flow.

2. Why not just use strong tranquility all the time?

People might get promoted to difference levels of security and need to be 
changed to a different clearance.

3. Explain why lowering the level of an object may be dangerous.

Lowering the level of an object would allow subjects with a lower security
clearance to have access to this information of which they shouldn't have
access to.

4. Explain what conditions must hold for a downgrade (lowering object level)
to be secure.

There must not be information in the object that is too sensitive for anyone
with a clearance level that is the same level that the object is being moved to.
This scenario would cause a problem.

Lecture 11:
1. Suppose you wanted to build a (library) system in which all
subjects had
read access to all files, but write access to none of them. What
levels could you give to subjects and objects?

Subjects would be high and objects would be low.

2. Why wouldn’t you usually build an access control matrix fo
r a BLP system?

The matrix could be too large, it is easy to determine access on the fly.

Lecture 12
1. Suppose you had hierarchical levels L, H with
L < H, but only had one
category A. Draw the lattice. (Use your keyboard and editor t
o draw it; it doesn’t have to be fancy.)

L(A) -> H(A)

2. Given any two labels in a BLP system, what is the algorithm f
or finding their LUB and GLB?

For finding the least upper bound, find a reverse path in a lattice.
For finding the greatest lower bound, find a forward path in a lattice.

3. Explain why upward flow in the lattice really is the metapol
icy for BLP.

Upward flow means data only flows from lower levels to higher levels. This 
agrees with the *-property because subjects can only write up.

Lecture 13
1. Explain how the BLP rules are supposed to enforce the metap
olicy in the example on slide 1.

Read down and write up means that information only flows towards higher ranked
security levels.

2. Argue that the READ and WRITE operations given satisfy BLP.

since read is down, info from lower levels are given to higher levels.
since write is up, info from lower levels are given to higher levels.

3. Argue that the CREATE and DESTROY operations given satisfy BLP.

creating an object doesn't give information to any other levels.
destroying an object also doesn't transfer information to toher levels.

4. What has to be true for the covert channel on slide 5 to work?

The low level subject has to be able to see that the high levels subject
has created an object or has not created this object. The higher level subject
must be able to store a variable depending if the object was created or not.

5. Why is the DESTROY statement there?

To cover the tracks of the covert channel so that the security people can't find
and fix the problem.

6. Are the contents of any files different in the two paths?

yes, F0 has a 0 or 1.

7. Why does SL do the same thing in both cases? Must it?

If SL does the same thing and different results occur this shows that a covert
channel exists since something outside (higher level subject) is effecting the
result. So yes, it should do the same thing.

8. Why does SH do different things? Must it?

This proves that SH can signal a bit of information to SL, if SH did the same 
thing and SL was different then it wasn't SH sending the bit of information so 
SH must do different things to prove that this effects SL.

9. Justify the statement on slide 7 that begins: “If SL ever se
es...”

If SL is changing by doing the same thing, then something else is effecting it.
If by changing SH this SL change is observed then we have found causality. So
this statement is correct.

Lecture 14
1. Explain why “two human users talking over coffee is not a co
vert channel.”

The people are purposefully exchanging the information, this isn't a flaw in the
security system.

2. Is the following a covert channel? Why or why not?
Send 0 | Send 1
------------------------------------------
Write (SH, F0, 0) | Write (SH, F0, 1)
Read (SL, F0) | Read (SL, F0)

No this isn't a covert channel because for SL to read what SH wrote, this 
wouldn't be a secure BLP system.

3. Where does the bit of information transmitted “reside” in
Covert Channel #1?

The bit is whether or not SH exists, if it exists then it returns access denied.
If it doesn't exist it returns not found.

4. In Covert Channel #2?

The bit of information is within the amount of time that process p requires to
give up the processor.

5. In Covert Channel #3?

The bit of information is sent by the location of the scan head on the disk.

6. In Covert Channel #4?

The bit of information is stored in the control flow of the program. Depending
on the if statement to send a bit to the lower level subject.

7. Why might a termination channel have low bandwidth?

One would have to wait for entire length of a program until it finishes for each
bit of information, so it couldn't get that many bits per unit time.

8. What would have to be true to implement a power channel?

A high level of power storage sensitivity would be required on a system that 
was running on battery, because if it were plugged in the power in the system 
might be constant over time.

9. For what sort of devices might power channels arise?

Cell phones might be exploitable in this way since they run on battery and
lose power relatively fast.

Lecture 15
1. Explain why covert channels, while appearing to have such
a low band-width, can potentially be very serious threats.

Passwords are stored in a small number of bits and with an unwarrented password,
the wrong person could log in and steal money from someones bank account.

2. Why would it be infeasible to eliminate every potential co
vert channel?

There is a trade-off between security and functionality. If one wants a system
to function to all of its required specifications then there are some covert
channels that must be left open to achieve this.

3. If detected, how could one respond appropriately to a cove
rt channel?

They could try to make the channel noisy by having a timer interrupt send bad
information over the channel. They could track anyone using the channel.

4. Describe a scenario in which a covert storage channel exists.

When two applications running at different security levels have a shared 
variable then when the higher level application changes the variable the lower
level application can see it. This is a storage channel because the bit of 
information is stored in a variable.

5. Describe how this covert storage channel can be utilized by the sender and
receiver.

A high level executive of a company can secretly leak stock information to a
reciever who can manipulate the market based on information he shouldn't have.

Lecture 16
1. Why wouldn’t the “create” operation have an R in the SRMM fo
r the “file existence” attribute?

This is a matter of symantics as explained on the quest lectures. Sure it does
change the file existence but it will return the same value no matter what.

2. Why does an R and M in the same row of an SRMM table indicate a p
oten-tial channel?

Because if something in the row can modify an attribute and something else in
the row can reference it, then at least 1 bit of information can be transferred.

3. If an R and M are in the same column of an SRMM table, does this
also indicate a potential covert channel? Why or why not?

No, Because these are different attributes if I can only look at A, modifying B
does me no good in terms of information.

4. Why would anyone want to go through the trouble to create an
SRMM table?

To find all the possible covert channels and cover them up.

