FIRSTNAME : Jess;
LASTNAME : Khine;
UTEID :  jnk375;
CSACCOUNT : jnk375;
EMAIL : jess.khine@aol.com;

CS361 Questions: Week 5

Lecture 66
1. What is PGP?

	- Pretty Good Privacy, an encryption system developed
	 for commercial use.

2. What motivated Phil Zimmerman to develop it?

	- His distrust of the government made him want to
	 develop a system of encryption for the general public.

3. Does PGP provide effective security?

	- Yes

4. If PGP is freeware, why would anyone bother to purchase support?

	- To support the developers.


Lecture 67
1. Explain the PGP authentication protocol.

	- Using the sender's private key, the sender is able to sign the hash of
	 the message. The receiver then uses the sender's public key to verify the
	 signature and get the hash code within. The Receiver then tries a hash on
	 the message to ensure that the hash code is the same.

2. Explain the PGP confidentiality protocol.

	- Because the session key is encrypted with Receiver's public key, only the
	 receiver can decrypt the message, allowing him to recover the session key
	 and use it to recover the message.

3. How do you get both authentication and confidentiality?

	- By first applying the authentication step to the original message and then
	 applying the confidentiality step to the resulting message.


Lecture 68
1. Besides authentication and con?dentiality, what other “services” does PGP
provide?

	- Compression, Email compatibility, and Segmentation

2. Why is compression needed?

	-  To shorten the hash after encryption.

3. Why sign a message and then compress, rather than the other way around?

	-  Encryption after compression strengthens the encryption.

4. Explain radix-64 conversion and why it’s needed?

	- Many email systems would choke on certain bit strings, thinking that they
	 are control commands. Radix-64 converts the test to groups of three octets
	 into four ASCII characters.

5. Why is PGP segmentation needed?

	- For messages that are too large.


Lecture 69
1. What are the four kinds of keys used by PGP?

	- Session, Public, Private, and Passphrase-based keys

2. What special properties are needed of session keys?

	- Used only once

3. How are session keys generated?

	- Encryption algorithm that uses the key from a previous session

4. Assuming RSA is used for PGP asymmetric encryption, how are the keys
generated?

	- Keys are generated by determining if an odd number of n bits is prime
	 or not prime.

5. How are the private keys protected? Why is this necessary?

	- Using a hashcode and then encrypted. To protect the private keys from
	 being decrypted, the security is highly dependant on the protection
	 of the private keys.


Lecture 70
1. If a user has multiple private/public key pairs, how does he know which was
used when he receives an encrypted message?

	- Associating a unique ID with a key pair.

2. What’s on a user’s private key ring?

	- Timestamp, Key ID, public key, private key, and User ID

3. What’s on a user’s public key ring?

	- Timestamp, Key ID, public key, and User Id

4. What are the steps in retrieving a private key from the key ring?

	- PGP retrieves receiver’s encrypted private key from the
	 component of the message as an index.

	PGP prompts the user for the passphrase to recover the
	 unencrypted private key.

	PGP recovers the session key and decrypts the message

5. What is the key legitimacy field for?

	- Indicates the extent to which PGP trusts that this is a valid public key
	 for htis user

6. How is a key revoked?

	- The owner issues a signed key revocation certificate


Lecture 71
1. Explain the difference between the consumer and producer problems. Which
is more prevalent?

	- The consumer problem refers to when an attacker gets in between the client
	 and service in terms of communication and disrupts it. The producer problem is
	 when the attacker makes a large number of requests to the server that it is
	 overwhelmed.

2. Explain syn flooding.

	- A syn Flooding attack happens when an attacker forges the return address on a
	 number of SYN packets. The server fills its table with these half-open connections.

3. Why are the first three solutions to syn flooding not ideal?

	- The first one could consume considerable resources
	 The second one might disallow connections by slower clients
	 The third one is hard to implement.


Lecture 72
1. Why does packet filtering work very well to prevent attacks?

	- It filters incoming packets and tries to determine the legitimacy of
	 the requests made.

2. What are the differences between intrusion detection and intrusion prevention systems?

	- Intrusion prevention tries to prevent an attack from occurring.
	 Intrustion detection tries to prevent an attack from doing more damage after
	 it has already infiltrated the system.

3. Explain the four different solutions mentioned to DDoS attacks.

	- Over-provisioning the network involves creating a surplus of servers.
	 Filtering attack packets will try to distinguish attack packets from regular ones.
	 Slow Down processing will limit the amount of resources of all requestors
	 including attackers.
	 Speak-up Solution is when the server requests additional traffic from all
	 requestors.


Lecture 73
1. Explain false positive and false negatives. Which is worse?

	- False negatives is when a genuine attack is not detected.
	 False positives is when a legitimate requests is classified as an attack.

2. Explain what “accurate” and “precise” mean in the IDS context.

	- Accurate refers to an IDS detecting all genuine attacks.
	 Precise refers to never mis-classifying a legitimate request as an attack.

3. Explain the statement: “It’s easy to build an IDS that is either accurate or
precise?

	- An IDS can classify all requests as an attack, therefore being perfectly
	 accurate but also not very precise and vice versa.

4. What is the base rate fallacy? Why is it relevant to an IDS?

	- The base rate fallacy points out that even with a high probability rate,
	 a large amount of false positives can still be generated. This is important
	 in IDS because any false positive can have severe consequences.


Lecture 74
1. What did Code Red version 1 attempt to do?

	- It attempted to overflow certain buffers allowing a security breach.

2. Why was Code Red version 1 ineffective?

	- Because of its static seed, so the random number generator generated
	 the same lists of IP addresses.

3. What does it mean to say that a worm is “memory resident”? What are the
implications.

	- The virus housed itself in the system's memory and was cleaned after
	 a reboot.

4. Why was Code Red version 2 much more effective than version 1?

	- The random seed greatly increased its effectiveness in generating
	 unique IP addresses.


Lecture 75
1. How was Code Red II related to Code Red (versions 1 and 2)?

	- CodeRedII used a random seed in its random number generator as opposed to
	 the static seed used by Code Red

2. Why do you suppose Code Red II incorporated its elaborate propogation
scheme?

	- To allow it to spread to multiple machines.

3. What did Code Red II attempt to do?

	- Not sure

4. Comment on the implications of a large population of unpatched machines.

	- They will all be infected and vulnerable to future infections.

5. Comment on the report from Verizon cited on slide 6. What are the lessons
of their study?

	- The attackers can constantly adapt their methods to continually take
	 advantage of computer security vulnerabilities even if they are patched.


Lecture 76
1. Why is a certification regime for secure products necessary and useful?

	- It's necessary  because most customers don't have the expertise to do it
	 themselves.

2. Explain the components of an evaluation standard.

	- A set of requirements defining security functionality.
	 A set of assurance requirements needed for establishing the functional 
	  requirements.
	 A methodology for determining that the functional requirements are met.
	 A measure of the evaluation result indicating the trustworthiness of the
	  evaluated system.

3. Why would crypto devices have a separate evaluation mechanism?

	- So that the independent labs can properly test the crypto devices.

4. Explain the four levels of certification for crypto devices.

	- Level 1: basic security; at least one approved algorithm or function.
	Level 2: improved physical security, tamper-evident packaging.
	Level 3: strong tamper-resistance and countermeasures.
	Level 4: complete envelope of protection including immediate zeroing of keys
	 upon tampering


Lecture 77
1. What is the Common Criteria?

	- A secure systems evaluation criteria that has been adopted by 26 countries

2. What’s “common” about it?

	- It has been adopted by 26 countries including the U.S.

3. Why would there be any need for “National Schemes”?

	- To develop a standardized process

4. Explain the difference between a protection profile and a security target.

	- A PP is a description of a family of products in terms of threats,
	 environmental issues and assumptions, security objectives, and requirements 
	 of the Common Criteria.
	 A Security Target is a document that contains the security requirements of 
	 a product to be evaluated (TOE), and specifies the measures offered by the 
	 product to meet those requirements.


Lecture 78
1. Explain the overall goal of the protection profile as exemplified by the WBIS
example.

	- Tries to detrmine threats to security

2. What is the purpose of the various parts of the protection profile (as
exemplified in the WBIS example)?

	- To determine threats to security and their sources

3. What is the purpose of the matrix on slide 7?

	- To show what objects are possible targets of an attack


Lecture 79
1. Explain the overall goal of the security target evaluation as exemplified by
the Sun Identity Manager example.

	- To try and establish the security requirements

2. How do you think that a security target evaluation differs from a protection
profile evaluation?

	- A protection profile is similar to a intrusion detection while a security
	 target evaluation is similar to intrusion prevention.


Lecture 80
1. What are the EALs and what are they used for?

	- Evaluation levels used to determine proper evaluations.

2. Who performs the Common Criteria evaluations?

	- Performed by commercial laboratories certified by NIST

3. Speculate why the higher EALs are not necessarily mutually recognized by
various countries.

	- Complex documentation is required

4. Can vendors certify their own products? Why or why not?

	- No, obviously a biased party

5. If you’re performing a formal evaluation, why is it probably bad to reverse
engineer the model from the code?

	- You can obtain the secrets from the code.

