Name: Yun Jang
EID: ysj238
CS Login: yunjang
Email: yunsjang@gmail.com

CS 361 - Question Assignment #4

Lecture 53

1) It is important to be non-reusable because then the signature could be detached and reused on some other message. Which would be a breach in security.

2) This is because it uses the public key encryption -- which is expensive. And messages are arbitrarily long, which makes it even more expensive to apply.

3) The assurance that R would obtain is that message becomes unforgeable, authentic, tamperproof, non-reusable, and allows no-repudiation.


Lecture 54

1) The importance is so that the receiver can verify the legitimacy of the certification through a third party.

2) X signed the hash of the first message to create a certificate. Now Y can prove that they are legitimate. 

3) Because Y is the identity of Y and Ky is the public key. It is necessary to have a hash of them so whenever
		someone else uses it (like Z), they are able to tell the validity of it.

4) Then there would be a chance that the message would become compromised. It might end up changing the identity
		and the public key while decrypting.


Lecture 55

1) Basically, the root of the chain of trust will be the one as the base of certifying other parties. Acts as the unimpeachable authority.

2) This is implemented so that the certificates have to be renewed over time and people can't reuse it somehow. If a certificate comes in expired, 
		then there is no reason to use it. 

3) It would mean that the certification is false or has been modified in some way that has breached security.


Lecture 56

1) Some protocols discussed before are: RSA and One-Time Pad.

2) If one step of a protocol is ignored, then there would be a security breach and someone would be able to reach inside and obtain the data.

3) They have to commute in order to keep hostile or untrustworthy users out of their data. If a communication between the two go wrong, then the data they 
		send to each other would become leaked.

4) An attacker could store four messages and XOR to cancel out the Ka and Kb to extract M.

5) An attacker could store four messages and XOR to cancel out the Kb and then XOR to extract out the Ka.

6) An attack could store three messages and XOR to cancel out the Ka and then XOR to extract out of the Kb.

7) It is because the implementation requires usage of keys over and over again (which involves randomization). Additionally, any mistakes are subtle but 
		those mistakes are costly and cause great breach in security.


Lecture 57

1) It is important in terms of the internet as it allows synchronization of communication to accomplish communication-related functions.

2) It is important in terms of the internet as it allowed synchronzation of communication to accomplish security-related functions.

3) The assumption of the protocol is that by sending an encrypted message to B with its public key hashed on top, it would allow the message to get through the 
		hostile environment and B would be able to open its contents.

4) The goals are to get the message to B without it being modified or having it compromised across the Internet.

5) Technically, yes, the goals are satisfied. If the assumption is that the message does reach B, then B would get the message without any modifications 
		done to the message or have its data compromised. This is because the message is hashed with the sender's private key and then the public key of the receiver.

6) However, this is flawed. This is because B cannot know when to receive it. At the same time, there is no guaranteed method of knowing whether it has arrived to 
		the receiver or not. And since the receiver cannot know, then A would have no method of knowing whether the message was successfully obtained or not.


Lecture 58

1) It is important to know if a protocol includes unnecessary steps or messages because it could potentially allow exploits or cause data to become compromised.

2) If a protocol can be sent in the clear, it would not have to encrypt the items to send as it is not in a hostile and insecure environment. It would be able to 
		send it to the receiver without problems.


Lecture 59

1) It is difficult because there are so many possibilities and methods that an attacker could violate a cryptographic protocol. For example, an attacker could
		impersonate, or, they could use older information to gain access, and so on.

2) A replay attack consists of the attacker using old data from the past that may contain older keys that are being reused. This would introduce dangers such as
		the attacker being able to decrypt messages through the usage of the old key and more.

3) Yes, there are. For example, the attacker could employ the man-in-the-middle attack to carry out messages from one users to another. Although the data may not
		be of secret information, the attacker would be in violation of confidentiality.

4) The restrictions that are imposed on the attacker are that the messages cannot be arbitrary and that an attacker cannot generate an encrypted message (unless
		they had an older private key or somehow obtained it from someone inside).

5) The protocols must be asynchronous otherwise the messages that are sent could be detected by the attacker and could be obtained through some attack.
		The communication between the users would not be known until the receiver obtains the first message.


Lecture 60

1) It could, but it would definitely be unsecure with it and could potentially compromise sensitive data. This is because the nonces that generate are refreshed 
		to indicate that the key server successfully received the request and is sending back a confirmation data with the encrypted message.

2) Answers below:
		First Step: 	The sender is telling the key server to start a communication between A and B. 
									The receiver is entitled to believe that the key server will return a message that B can use that is fresh and encrypted.
		Second Step:	The sender is telling A that it has received its request and generated an encrypted message that can be sent to B.
									The receiver should believe that the key server is sending an encrypted message that B and only B can open.
		Third Step:		The sender is telling B that a message is on its way to B.
									The receiver is entitled to believe that the message coming in is intended for them as the outer encryption layer can only be opened with their key.
		Fourth Step:  The sender is telling A that they have successfully received the message.
									The receiver is entitled to believe that the message coming is a verification of the obtained message and needs to reply back that it now knows.
		Fifth Step:		The sender sends the message back encrypted again with the previously sent message that has been modified. 
									The receiver is entitled to believe if the message received has been modified, then they have acknowledged that they received the message.


Lecture 61

1) They wouldn't be able to. The key server would know that the key is expired or invalid and the communication between the server wouldn't work.

2) Yes and no. It really boils down to the strength of the encryption that is used.

3) I could address the flaws by finding what is the vulnerability and appending additional steps in order to ensure a more secure step.
		Granted, yes, more steps means it'll be slower. But there must be a trade-off between the performance and the confidentiality of the messages.


Lecture 62

1) It guarantees that the two principals (A and B) are going to be talking to each other. As the data needed to communicate with each other is 
		done through the key server.

2) Yes, one of the guarantees is that it is a shared-key and not a public-key. So it wouldn't be visible to anyone but the receiver (until the
		receiver gets the message). 

3) Make an addition to the protocol so that once a message is sent, it can't be run as a new instance of the protocol.


Lecture 63

1) It is important as it pretty much standardizes on how to make sure a protocol is safe and keep it from being compromised from an intruder.
		Basically, it's going to through and making sure that the protocol is solid and bullet-proof from intruders.

2) A belief logic is a formal system for reasoning about beliefs. It consists of a set of logical operators and rules of inference.

3) It comes in to the messages or data that flows through the protocol. Based on the messages/data that is being sent through the protocol,
		the protocol's behavior and properties.


Lecture 64

1) A modal logic is a standard properzitional logic with additional primitives and rules of inference built in to reason about a particular domain.

2) Basically, it is just stating the message communication between A and B and that it is between them and only them. So if B sent a message, then
		A knows it is only from B. It is basically making inferences a bit more rigorous.

3) The intuition behind the nonce verification is that X isn't really a message. It is just a statement of a message since A heard from B that heard
		from X. And A believes B where B believes X.

4) Basically, the intuition is that A believes that B is more credible than X; but B believed that from X. Therefore, A believes X since the
		information was heard from the credible source B.

5) The entire purpose of idealization is to omit all plaintext to prevent any forgery in the messages.


Lecture 65

1) It is omitted because it is information that is not needed in a message. If left in, it could allow forgery of the message.

2) Because those idealized steps are the steps that are assumed to occur later on. 

3) If the BAN proof exposes assumptions, it basically means that the logic for the security of the protocol can only be handled in that assumed way.
		This prevents any other outside cases from breaking the protocol and can define the scope of the protocol more specifically.