CS361 WEEK 2 QUESTIONS
Name: Jess Khine
EID: JNK375
CS Login: JNK375
Email: jess.khine@aol.com

CS361 Questions: Week 2

These questions relate to Modules 4, 5, 6 and 7. Type your answers and submit
them via email to Dr. Young by 5pm on Thursday, June 19.
The questions marked with a dagger (†) require external research and may be more
extensive and time consuming. You don’t have to do them for the assignment but,
but you may want to do them to increase your knowledge of the subject matter.

Lecture 17

1. If a computer system complies with the BLP model, does it necessarily comply with non-interference? 
	Why or why not?

	Yes it does. In the BLP model, information flow is also restricted based on what subjects can 
	"interfere" with other subjects or objects, similar to the non-interference policy.

2. What would the NI policy be for a BLP system with subjects: A at (Secret:Crypto), B at (Secret: Nuclear)?

	They can't interfere with each other because they have different integrity labels.

3. Can covert channels exist in an NI policy? Why or why not?

	No, in an NI policy there is absolutely no "interference" between a high integrity level subject and a
	low integrity level subject/object. That includes covert channels which could be used by low levels.

4. If the NI policy is A −> B , in a BLP system what combinations of the levels “high” and “low” could A and B
	have?

	B(low,{ }), A(high,{ })
	A(low,{ }), B(low, { })
	A(high,{ }), B(high,{ })

Lecture 18

1. Why do NI policies better resemble metapolicies than policies?

	They are very general information flow policies based on achieving proper integrity.

2. What would be L’s view of the following actions: h1, l1, h2, h3, . . . , hj, l2, l3, . . . , lk

	l1, l2, l3, . . . , lk

3. What is difficult about proving NI for realistic systems?

	Very hard to achieve complete non-interference. Lots of channels of communication to interfere.


Lecture 19

1. Explain the importance of integrity in various contexts.

	Integrity can mean different things depending on the context of the situation.
	Who can modify/change data? How do we detect an unauthorized change? What can we do to correct
	the unauthorized change? All these questions have different answers depending on the situation.

2. Why would a company or individual opt to purchase commercial software rather than download a similar, 
	freely available version?

	The integrity or trustworthiness of the commercial software is higher than the freely available
	version.

3. Explain the difference between separation of duty and separation of function.

	Separation of duty ensures that no one person has too much power and multiple people are required to
	complete an important action.
	Separation of function ensures that an important action cannot be executed by a single subject/method.

4. What is the importance of auditing in integrity contexts?

	It ensures records of the actions of subjects. Looking at these records will help in detecting
	unauthorized changes.

5. What are the underlying ideas that raise the integrity concerns of Lipner?

	The trustworthiness of the subject and the object. Whether its the software being used, or how the
	product is transferred, or even the level of trust in the staff.

6. Name a common scenario where integrity would be more important than confidentiality.

	The grades of a student. If a student is able to violate confidentiality and read the grades of 
	his/her	fellow students (confidentiality) when they're not supposed to it's not that serious. However
	if a student is able to change his own grades (integrity) it would be a serious offense and 
	breach of security.

Lecture 20

1. Give examples of information that is highly reliable with little sensitivity and information that is not 
	so highly reliable but with greater sensitivity.

	High reliability with Little Sensitivity: A highly respected newspaper. People will trust the
		information but because it's being released to the public, low sensitivity.
	Low reliability with High sensitivity: For example maybe a rumor on an internet blog about a
		VIP such as the president in a scandal of some sort. The reliability of the information is
		extremely low but the information is sensitive and could have large consequences.

2. Explain the dominates relationships for each row in the table on slide 4.

	The Expert in physics dominates the student in physics.
	The Novice in physics and art does NOT dominate the expert in physics
	The Student in art dominates the novice with no specific specialty.

3. Construct the NI policy for the integrity metapolicy.

	Good information -> Bad information or
	High integrity informatino -> Low integrity information

4. What does it mean that confidentiality and integrity are “orthogonal issues?”

	We have to treat them separately.

Lecture 21

1. Why is Biba Integrity called the “dual” of the BLP model?

	Because where information flows in the BLP model, the flow is reversed for writing in the Biba
	integrity model.

2. Why in the ACM on slide 5 is the entry for Subj3 - Obj3 empty?

	Although the integrity levels are the same, neither set of integrity levels are a subeset of the
	other, meaning that Subj3 is not able to either read or write to Obj3.

3. If a subject satisfies confidentiality requirements but fails integrity requirements of an object, 
can the subject access the object?

	Yes.

Lecture 22

1. What is the assumption about subjects in Biba’s low water mark policy?

	That the subjects aren't smart enough to realize what information is trustworthy or not.

2. Are the subjects considered trustworthy?

	No, after they read a low integrity object their level is dropped down.

3. Does the Ring policy make some assumption about the subject that the LWM policy does not?

	That the subjects are able to recognize low integrity information.

4. Are the subjects considered trustworthy?

	Yes, subjects are trusted no matter what object they read and their level stays the same.

Lecture 23

1. Are the SD and ID categories in Lipner’s model related to each other?

	No, one deals with confidentiality, the other with integrity.

2. Why is it necessary for system controllers to have to ability to downgrade?

	It's just an important process for the job of a system controller, to move something into production.

3. Can system controllers modify development code/test data?

	Yes.

4. What form of tranquility underlies the downgrade ability?

	Weak Tranquility, which allows the changing of labels.

Lecture 24

1. What is the purpose of the four fundamental concerns of Clark and Wilson?

	To better identify the needs of a commercial security system.

2. What are some possible examples of CDIs in a commercial setting?

	Bank balances, checks, credit.

3. What are some possible examples of UDIs in a commercial setting?

	A piece of candy in a bank, free brochures, etc?

4. What is the difference between certification and enforcement rules?

	Certification are procedures that can be exectued a valid system state.
	Enforcement tries to keep the system in a valid state.

5. Give an example of a permission in a commercial setting.

	(Teller, Deposit_Check, {Customer_Check})

Lecture 25

1. Why would a consultant hired by American Airlines potentially have a breach of confidentiality if also 
hired by United Airlines?

	The consultant might have sensitive information about American Airlines that they can bring over to United Airlines.

2. In the example conflict classes, if you accessed a file from GM, then subsequently accessed a file 
from Microsoft, will you then be able to access another file from GM?

	Yes, they are in different conflict classes meaning there is no conflict of interest.

3. Following the previous question, what companies’ files are available for access according to the 
simple security rule?

	Only within the company's files, cannot access other company's files if they are in the same conflict class.

4. What differences separate the Chinese Wall policy from the BLP model?

	Dynamically changing permissions.

Lecture 26

1. What benefits are there in associating permissions with roles, rather than subjects?

	Less work invovled compared to assigning each individual permissions. Also helps when a subject transitions between roles.

2. What is the difference between authorized roles and active roles?

	Authorized roles are the roles a subject can take on.
	Active roles refer to the current role a subject has assumed.

3. What is the difference between role authorization and transaction authorization?

	Role authorization ensures that the role a subject assumed is in its set of authorized roles.
	Transaction authorization ensures that the transaction the subject is attempting to execute is permitted within its active role.

4. What disadvantages do standard access control policies have when compared to RBAC?

	They do not take into account that a subject can have many functions within an organization or can transition between roles.
	Also in a commercial setting, the RBAC is able to implement functions more fitting to the context, than say read/write permissions in standard access control policies.

Lecture 27

1. Why would one not want to build an explicit ACM for an access control system?

	ACM's can get extremely large for most access control systems.

2. Name, in order, the ACM alternatives for storing permissions with objects, storing permissions 
with subjects and computing permissions on the fly.

	ACL's (Access Control Lists)
	Capabilities
	Rules

Lecture 28

1. What must be true for the receiver to interpret the answer to a “yes” or “no” question?

	The receiver must be able to recognize which message is yes and which is no.

2. Why would one want to quantify the information content of a message?

	To determine how much information can be sent in a message.

3. Why must the sender and receiver have some shared knowledge and an agreed encoding scheme?

	If we want to use any other encoding scheme besides naive encoding, they have to agree on an encoding scheme so that the receiver can decode the message.

4. Why wouldn’t the sender want to transmit more data than the receiver needs to resolve uncertainty?

	Bandwidth of the channel might be low.

5. If the receiver knows the answer to a question will be “yes,” how many bits of data quantify 
the information content? Explain.

	0 bits. If the receiver knows the answer will always be yes it can just execute the action.

Lecture 29

1. How much information is contained in each of the first three messages from slide 2?

	Depends on the encoding scheme and the uncertainty of the message.

2. Why does the amound of information contained in “The attack is at dawn” depend on the receiver’s 
level of uncertainty?

	The context of the message will determine the level of uncertainty, for example if the attack can occur only at dusk or dawn, then there are only 2 options for the attack, whereas if the attack could occur anytime of the day the level of uncertainty is much greater.

3. How many bits of information must be transmitted for a sender to send one of exactly 16 messages? Why?

	4 bits of information if it's naive encoding. 4 bits can represent 16 messages individually.

4. How much information content is contained in a message from a space of 256 messages?

	8 bits of information content.

5. Explain why very few circumstances are ideal, in terms of sending information content.

	The context varies depending on the message.

Lecture 30

1. Explain the difference between the two connotations of the term “bit.”

	One bit can represent either 0 or 1 (discrete)
	or a bit can be a part of an entire message. You need the correct sequence of bits to get the whole message (continuous).

2. Construct the naive encoding for 8 possible messages.

	M1: 000	M2: 001	M3: 010	M4: 011
	M5: 100	M6: 101	M7: 110	M8: 111

3. Explain why the encoding on slide 5 takes 995 + (5 * 5) bits.

	995 messages, each message of 1 bit
	and 5 messages each needing 5 bits

4. How can knowing the prior probabilities of messages lead to a more efficient encoding?

	If you know the most common message that is sent, you can make that message need less bits to represent it, allowing for quicker message transfer.

5. Construct an encoding for 4 possible messages that is worse than the naive encoding.

	M1: 1000	M2: 1001	M3: 1010 M4: 1011

	Making each message take more bits than necessary to represent each message.

6. What are some implications if it is possible to find an optimal encoding?

	If it is possible to find an optimal encoding, then all message transfer could be standardized.

Lecture 31

1. Name a string in the language consisting of positive, even numbers.

	123456789

2. Construct a non-prefix-free encoding for the possible rolls of a 6-sided die.

	1: 111110
	2: 11110
	3: 1110
	4: 110
	5: 10
	6: 0

3. Why is it necessary for an encoding to be uniquely decodable?

	It shortens the time needed to decode a message.

4. Why is a lossless encoding scheme desirable?

	The receiver will be able to receive the entire message with no loss of data

5. Why doesn’t Morse code satisfy our criteria for encodings?

	It is not uniquely decodable.

Lecture 32

1. Calculate the entropy of an 8-sided, fair die (all outcomes are equally likely).

	h = -(1/8log(1/8) + 1/8log(1/8) + ... + 1/8log(1/8))

2. If an unbalanced coin is 4 times more likely to yield a tail than a head, what is the entropy of 
the language?

	h = -(1/5log(1/5) + 4/5log(4/5))

3. Why is knowing the entropy of a language important?

	It determines the lower bound for encoding a message. This is important for efficiency, allowing us to figure out the lowest amount of bits it would take to encode a series of messages.

Lecture 33

1. Explain the reasoning behind the expectations presented in slide 3.

	Based on the probability, if a single coin is flipped 32 times or a series of 2 flips is conducted 16 times, the results will on average follow the probabilities.

2. Explain why the total expected number of bits is 27 in the example presented in slide 4.

	The count (probability) of the result multiplied by the bits needed to relay the code all summed up together leads to 27.

3. What is the naive encoding for the language in slide 5?

	1: 001
	2: 010
	3: 011
	4: 100
	5: 101
	6: 111

4. What is the entropy of this language?

	h = -(6/20log(6/20) + 6/20log(6/20) + 3/20log(3/20)+3/20log(3/20) + 1/20log(1/20) + 1/20log(1/20))

5. Find an encoding more efficient than the naive encoding for this language.

	1: 0
	2: 10
	3: 110
	4: 1110
	5: 11110
	6: 111110

6. Why is your encoding more efficient than the naive encoding?

	1 and 0 which are the most likely numbers to occur only take 1 and 2 bits respectively to represent each message. In contrast, 5 and 6 which are the last likely to occur take 5 and 6 bits to represent.





