Name: Tehreem Syed
EID: tfs385		
CS Login: fatima
Email: tehreemsyed@utexas.edu

CS361 Questions: Week 1
These questions relate to Module(s) 1. Type your answers and submit them via
email to the TA by 5pm on Thursday, June 12.


Lecture 1


1.What uses of the term “security” are relevant to your everyday life?
Ans.Personal security, corporate security, personnel security, energy security , homeland security, communications security , network security and system security.

2. What do these have in common?
Ans.The common thing amongst them is protection of information or things. 

3. Have you been a victim of lax security?
Ans. Yes, the heartbleed is one. 

4. What is the likelihood that your laptop is infected? How did you decide?
Not much. I say so because I have lots of firewalls and malware protection enables onmy system.

5. What security measures do you employ on your laptop?
Ad blocker, firewall enabling, changing passwords regularly and anti malware/anti virus.

6. Do you think they are probably effective?
They have been for a quite some time or so it seems.

7. Consider the quote from the FBI official on slide 10. Do you think it overstates
the case? Justify your answer.
No it does not because it is true that the risk is definitely so great. For instance in case of Edward Snowden or other miltiratry secrets if leaked because of lax security can put the country in unsafe hands.

8. What is the importance in learning about computer security?
IT can help us protect ourselves,our environment and the cyberspace in general.

Lecture 2


1. Consider the five reasons given why security is hard. Can you think of other
factors?
I cannot.

2. Is there a systematic way to enumerate the “bad things” that might happen
to a program? Why or why not?
No there is not because nomatter what you do attacker just needs to find one exploitable vulberability. 

3. Explain the asymmetry between the defender and attacker in security.
The defender has to ﬁnd and eliminate all exploitable vulnerabilities; the attacker only needs to ﬁnd one. So you as a user have tosay 1000 steps in order to protect a particular programme. Howveer, a hacker only has to think 1 to creep in the system.

4. Examine the quotes from Morris and Chang. Do you agree? Why or why
not?
I do not. While it is the only solution probable to make oneself secure it is not the right or lasting one. With the change in technology you have to keep up with it. Giving up on it is not a valid answer.

5. Explain the statement on slide 8 that a tradeoff is typically required.
In order to make your stuff secure , one might have to give up on a lot of useful things because they might lead to harmful threats. For instance, two step verification for email identities is painful and takes so long to do but it is secure. So there is always a tradeoff.

Lecture 3

1. Define “risk”?
Risk is a possibility that a particular threat will adversely impact an information sstem by exploiting a particular vulnerability. 

2. Do you agree that software security is about managing risk?
Yes. 

3. Name and explain a risk you accept, one you avoid, one you mitigate, and
one you transfer?
Accepted Risk – I understand that I have to protect my computer from viruses and Ic ant do it so I buy anti-virus softwares.Its the cost I pay to protect my laptop.
Avoided Risk –I try not going to insecure URLs
Mitigated risk - I change my passwords for admin account regulary and disallow remote logins to prevent any threat. 
Risk Tranasfer – I know I cant protect my computer enough so I pay a third party to do monthly chekcs to protect my system

4. Evaluate annualized loss expectancy as a risk management tool.
It is a risk management tool because you can then assess which risk is more expensive than the other and make a choice to choose the one that is cheaper. 
Here is another good explanation:

Case 1: The only option is that you're given a dollar so the probability that you will win $1 is 1, meaning 100%. Given that, the expected value is ($1)(1) = $1. 

Case 2: You're given two options with a coin flip: if it's heads you win $1000 but if it's tails you lose $998. The probability for getting either a head or a tails on one flip is 1/2. Given that, the expected value is ($1000)(.5) + (-$998)(.5) = $1.

The expected values are equal but the risks are vastly different.

5. List some factors relevant to rational risk assessment.
1.Assess assets
2. assess threats
3.assess vulnerabilities
4.assess risks

Lecture 4

1.Explain the key distinction between the lists on slides 2 and 3.
 The list on slide 2 tells of certain things that one wouldliek to achieve in order to ensure computer security . However , slide 3 tells how to do and achieve these properties.
These are mechanisms. 

2. Consider your use of computing in your personal life. Which is most important:
confidentiality, integrity, availability? Justify your answer.

I would say integrity because I feel it is very important who writes and modifies the information. It has to be me if it is my stuff and no one else should be able to get there at all. 

3. What does it mean “to group and categorize data”?

To group and categorize data in this context means to identify which is more confidential information as compared to the other. So extermemely sensitive information can be grouped together while less important can be protected with less security. 

4. Why might authorizations change over time?
Possibly if someone is dead and they give the right to access their bank account to their children then the authorization changed from the person to his children. 
This is one way authorization may change over time. 

5. Some of the availability questions seem to relate more to reliability than to
security. How are the two related?
Because, you would expect resource to be available to you when you need it. IF you aren’t provided with it in a time when you need it most , tehn probably that service is not responsible and you cant trust them anymore. This makes them unreliable. 

6. In what contexts would authentication and non-repudiation be considered
important?
For example, if you are an amazon user and you were supposed to send a book to the buyer and you don’t do it then that non-repudiation. And you prime security mechanism would be address the issue such that if someone signs up to do something and is supposed to provide a facility then it should an dhsould not back out. 


Lecture 5

1.Describe a possible metapolicy for a cell phone network? A military database?

Cell Phone nework:
Calls and text messages  made over the netowrk should be protected from disclosure. 

Military database system :
Military plans of actions and communication made between different parties should be protected. 

2. Why do you need a policy if you have a metapolicy?
A metapolicy is very general and abstarct. The fine-print regarding certain rules i.e. making it more specific to a system. 

3. Give three possible rules within a policy concerning students’ academic
records.
	1.Faculty/staff may not be alllowed to access student academic records except for checking pre-requisites for the class.
	2. Student records can be given to a student only through their univeristy Id or other ID.
	3. Student records can only be disclosed by teh authority of teh student. 

4. Could stakeholders’ interest conflict in a policy? Give an example.
Yes, they can. For instance, Google emails and other services provide confidentiality but they choose to keep the information in their servers and this conflicts the google's policy of providing confidentiality and privacy  for teh user. This might be defined in google's privacy policy but for an individual security'  policy is conflicted.

5. For the example given involving student SSNs, state the likely metapolicy.
Social security numbers of students should be protected from disclosure.

6. Explain the statement: ”If you don’t understand the metapolicy, it becomes
difficult to justify and evaluate the policy.”
The policy might not make sense and seem arbitrary and capricious if the metapolicy is not understood. Because you can make rules but you would find them unnecessary if you dont agree with them.

Lecture 6
1. Why is military security mainly about confidentiality? Are there also aspects
of integrity and availability? 

Its mainly about confidentiallity because the information carried out is highly sensitive and should not be able to be of access to everyone
There are but its not as important as confidentiality. 

2. Describe the major threat in our MLS thought experiment.
The major threat is unauthorized personnel accessing information that they should not. 

3. Why do you think the proviso is there?
Because other things could be taken into account but for now confidentiality is of top priority. 

4. Explain the form of the labels we’re using.
Information is parcelled out into separate containers
(documents/folders/objects/ﬁles)labeled according to their
sensitivity level.One part of the label is taken from a linearly ordered set:
Unclassiﬁed, Conﬁdential, Secret, Top Secret.

5. Why do you suppose we’re not concerned with how the labels get there?
It would be another area to study for a security policy. 

6. Rank the facts listed on slide 6 by sensitivity.
1 The base softball team has a game tomorrow at 3pm.not sensitive
2 The Normandy invasion is scheduled for June 6.highly sensitive
3 The cafeteria is serving chopped beef on toast today. not sensitive
4 Col. Jones just got a raise.not sensitive
5 Col. Smith didn’t get a raise.not sensitive
6 The British have broken the German Enigma codes.highly sensitive.

7. Invent labels for documents containing each of those facts.
Unclassified and  confidential
8. Justify the rules for “mixed” documents.
1. Use the highest appropriate level.
2. Use both categories. 

Lecture 7
1. Document labels are stamped on the outside. How are “labels” affixed to
humans?
We assign individuals authorization and clearance levels and they would be heierarchical level.

2. Explain the difference in semantics of labels for documents and labels for
humans.
When we label for documents it represents type of information in there. For level for individuals it depends the amount we trust that individual to have access to teh information.

3. In the context of computers what do you think are the analogues of documents?
Of humans?
Document Crypto and Human is crypto -> need to know categories are different.

4. Explain why the Principle of Least Privilege makes sense.
It makes sense because there is no way he will be able to have access to much more confidential information that he is not supposed to have, 

5. For each of the pairs of labels on slide 6, explain why the answers in the
third column do or do not make sense.
1.It makes sense because both have the same levelof labels.
2.It does because Top secret is much higher than secret
3.It does not make sense because nuclear is highly sensitive information but an unclassified person is allowed access. It is very weird but I guess pssible

Lecture 8:
1. Why do you think we introduced the vocabulary terms: objects, subjects,
actions?
It goes well with the MLS example we have been foloowing. It also kind of serves as the labels we talked about in the first place. 

2. Prove that dominates is a partial order (reflexive, transitive, antisymmetric).
Dominates is reflexive because L1>= L1 ad L2>=L2
Dominates is transitive because if L1>= L2>= L3 then L1 >= L3. 
Domiantes is anti-symmetric because if L1>= L2 and L2>=L1 then ofcourse L1 = L2 in this case. 

3. Show that dominates is not a total order.
There are security labels A and B, such that neither A ≥ B nor B ≥ A so it is not atoral order. 

4. What would have to be true for two labels to dominate each other?
They have to be 
1. One is >= to the other and 
2. One is the subset of teh other. 

5. State informally what the the Simple Security property says.
The simple security property says that Subject S with clearance (LS,CS) may be granted read access to object O with classification (LO,CO) only if (LS,CS) dominates (LO,CO).

6. Explain why it’s “only if” and not “if and only if.”
Because it is absolutely necessary to be true but not sufficient. 

Lecture 9
1. Why isn’t Simple Security enough to ensure confidentiality?
Because it codifies read access but not write access. 

2. Why do we need constraints on write access?
BEcayse that coudl effect our reads. 

3. What is it about computers, as opposed to human beings, that makes that
particularly important?
Because, information can be leaked anywhere without you knowing it. 
ontrolling write access is especially crucial for computers
because the accessing subject may be aprogram
executing on behalf of a user. The user has been cleared; the program has
not.
4. State informally what the *-Property says.
Subject S with clearanance(Ls,Cs)may
be granted write access to object O with classiﬁcation (Lo, Co) only if (Ls, Cs)<= (L0, C0)

5. What must be true for a subject to have both read and write access to an
object?
The object is reading or wriing from itself. Lo,Co == Lo, C0.

6. How could we deal with the problem that the General (top secret) can’t send
orders to the private (Unclassified)?
We dont have any security clearnaces for that so it is easy. 

7. Isn’t it a problem that a corporal can overwrite the war plan? Suggest how
we might deal with that.
Yes but it is an integrity probem. 


Lecture 10:


1. Evaluate changing a subject’s level (up or down) in light of weak tranquility.
Suppose your system includes a command to lower the level of a subject/object

2. Why not just use strong tranquility all the time?
This is not practically possible and what f someone upgrades to more rights but then it means teh level of security access for that person could never be improved. 

3. Explain why lowering the level of an object may be dangerous.
It is clearly bad because then it could be accessed by people it should not eb accessed by assuming it is till holding equally sentive information.

4. Explain what conditions must hold for a downgrade (lowering object level)
to be secure.
Subjects and objects do not change levels in a way that violates the “spirit” of the security policy.I.e. the Simple security Property and *- Property should not be violated. 


Lecture 11:
1. Suppose you wanted to build a (library) system in which all subjects had
read access to all files, but write access to none of them. What levels could
you give to subjects and objects?
Ans. SUB: High and OBJ : low

2. Why wouldn’t you usually build an access control matrix for a BLP system?

We may have thousands of subjects and objects and a matrix with millions of intersection and the matrix would be empty because many subjects wont interact with many objects. So in case of BLP , one can compute these access controls on the fly because you have simple security property and the star property rather than computing the matrix.

Lecture 12
CS361 Questions: Week 1 5
1. Suppose you had hierarchical levels L, H with L < H, but only had one
category A. Draw the lattice. (Use your keyboard and editor to draw it; it
doesn’t have to be fancy.)	
Ans. (L,{A})----→(H,{A})
           ^                       ^
           |                        |
           |                        |
         (L,{})---------→(H, {})

2. Given any two labels in a BLP system, what is the algorithm for finding
their LUB and GLB?


3. Explain why upward flow in the lattice really is the metapolicy for BLP.

It should only be the case in BLP that information flows upwards  in the lattice of labels. IF the information transfer is closed then we know something is wrong and the rules applied are not sufficient for the meta policy.

Lecture 13
1. Explain how the BLP rules are supposed to enforce the metapolicy in the
example on slide 1.

The metapolicy for this set of labels should be that information should be able to flow from low to high and not the other way round. So to ensure this metapolicy we devise a set of rules, simple security and the *-property .  If no such path exists that information can flow from L to H , then the Simple Security prevents information reads from L to Hand the * property prevents write from H to L which sort of enforce the idea of information flow of the metapolicy.

2. Argue that the READ and WRITE operations given satisfy BLP.
This is so because in BLP, in order to read you have to satisfy the Simple Security Property which states that a subject may be granted read access to object O only if the level of the subject >= the level of the object. READ operation here also satisfies this BLP property. 
In order to write in BLP the *-property needs to be met which states that subject S may write to Subject O only if the level of the subject is <= to the level of the object. Which is also the case for WRITE here that Ls<= Lo and then only the value changes.

3. Argue that the CREATE and DESTROY operations given satisfy BLP.
A high level subject SH creates and object F0 and a low level subject SL tries to create an object F0 and it fails because  the object already exists by that name. The low level subject tries to write to that object and he succeeds because level of SH> level of SL and SL can write up,meeting the *- property of BLP. But if it tries to read,  the read fails because it tries to read the high level subject, meeting the Simple Security Property.

However, if the SH does not create the Object Fo but SL does. Then it can both read and write because it is at the same level as itself. SH can then only read Object F0. Which shows that the given operation is satisfiable for BLP. 

4. What has to be true for the covert channel on slide 5 to work?
There are no other  subjects trying to create Fo. Also, the BLP rules apply for READ and WRITE.

5. Why is the DESTROY statement there?
The subject that creates F0 or subjects of the same level will be the only subject that can destroy it . So in a way that also helps passing the one bit information about the status of Object Fo.

6. Are the contents of any files different in the two paths?
They could be , but we may assume that they are not. 

7. Why does SL do the same thing in both cases? Must it?
SL does the same thing because regardless of what SL does it is still readable by SH . It must do it because it is of lower level than SH.

8. Why does SH do different things? Must it?
SH does different things and it should because that effects whether SL can write to Object F0. It must also do this because SH >= SL.

9. Justify the statement on slide 7 that begins: “If SL ever sees...”
This is true because for the metapolicy to be enforced it is important that no information flows from one security level to another security level. While the actual contents of read and write are not being transferred in this scenario, the information whether Object F0 exists or not and what level it is is being transferred which violates the metapolicy. 
Lecture 14
1. Explain why “two human users talking over coffee is not a covert channel.”
A covert channel is a path for the flow of information between subjects within a system, utilizing system resources that were not designed to be used for inter-subject communication. Two humans talking over coffee is not a covert channel because that are neither two subjects in a system not they are utilizing any resources that were not designed to use for communication.  They are two individuals plainly communicating which was possible in the first place and there was never a metaplicy that stated for them to protect information.



2. Is the following a covert channel? Why or why not?
Send 0 | Send 1
------------------------------------------
Write (SH, F0, 0) | Write (SH, F0, 1)
Read (SL, F0) | Read (SL, F0)
It is not a covert channel because the SL does not see a varying information from SH. It can still write up. We do not know who created FO or what level it is. 

3. Where does the bit of information transmitted “reside” in Covert Channel
#1?
SH  is recording information within the system state about the level of the resource and who can access it.
So it resides in storage.

4. In Covert Channel #2?
The bit of information transmittted sort of resides in when process p finishes using the processor and then process q can calculate it. The information is recorded in ordering and duration of events of the system.
So it resides in the timings. 

5. In Covert Channel #3?
P leaves the read head closer to A or B and q gets result from either BA or AB and it will read accordingly. So it is neither storage nor timings.

6. In Covert Channel #4?
The value of h is even or odd and the value of l is 0 or 1 and information flows based on the values. Information resides in the language based computations. 

7. Why might a termination channel have low bandwidth?
The computation is taking too long to terminate. 

8. What would have to be true to implement a power channel?
Energy consumed between two operations on the system is interdependent. 
9. For what sort of devices might power channels arise?
Keyboards and mouse. 
Lecture 15
1. Explain why covert channels, while appearing to have such a low bandwidth,
can potentially be very serious threats.
 Covert channels on real processors operate at thousands of bits per second, with no appreciable impact on system processing. 

2. Why would it be infeasible to eliminate every potential covert channel?
Because, sometimes it is hard to identify if or where these covert channels lie. Thus, it is infeasible to eliminate every potential covert channel because you might not think about them.

3. If detected, how could one respond appropriately to a covert channel?
We can respond by :
1.	modifying the system implementation.
2.	Reducing the bandwidth by increasing the noise
3.	We can monitor patterns of  usage that indicate that someone is trying to exploit it.
4. Describe a scenario in which a covert storage channel exists.
You have a high level process sand low level process. High level process is trying to modify some system attribute and low level process is observing it somehow. So, it has got to be the case that both sender and receiver have access to some  attribute as a shared object. The sender somehow changes that attribute and The receiver has some sense of changing of that attribute and finally there has to be a way for the two process to coordinate their activities so the receiver will know when the high level process has made a change. 
5. Describe how this covert storage channel can be utilized by the sender and
receiver.
1.	Both sender and receiver must have access to some attributes of the shared object.
2.	Both sender and receiver have access to time reference(real-time clock, timer, ordering of events).
3.	The sender must be able to control the timing of the detection of a change in the attribute of the receiver.
4.	A mechanism for initiating both processes and sequencing their accesses to the shared resource, must exist. 

Lecture 16
1. Why wouldn’t the “create” operation have an R in the SRMM for the “file
existence” attribute?
Because if there is not a file than you can go ahead and create the file which would change the file existence attribute and hence there is an M over there. 

2. Why does an R and M in the same row of an SRMM table indicate a potential
channel? 
Because R and M shows there is a mechanism that someone can modify and some one can reference the attribute, which is what one needs for covert channel to exist.

3. If an R and M are in the same column of an SRMM table, does this also
indicate a potential covert channel? Why or why not?
No it does not because this information tells us about modifying and referencing of two different attributes which does not give us any productive information in regards to a covert channel.


4. Why would anyone want to go through the trouble to create an SRMM
table?
To make systems secures because they can identify the possibility of covert channels and where they may reside. 

