Name: Sonny David Marton
EID: sdm2755
CS Login: smartone
Email: sonnymarton@yahoo.com

CS361 Questions: Week 5

Lecture 66

1. What is PGP?

	"Pretty Good Privacy", a simple to use package of cryptographic algorithms for
	encrypting emails. The average joe should be able to use it without hassle.

2. What motivated Phil Zimmerman to develop it?

	He had a strong distrust for the government, and wanted a way to encrypt to hide
	from the government. An encryption that the government could not crack so that he
	could have privacy from them.

3. Does PGP provide effective security?

	Yes, it does and has stood the test of time. It uses some of the top algorithms
	and is now becoming a standard for the Internet. It is an easy way of getting
	security and has not been touched by the goverment, so it is likely that they do
	not have a way of cracking it.

4. If PGP is freeware, why would anyone bother to purchase support?

	Some companies do not want to use freeware. A paid version would have support and
	service available to them, that they do not have an expertise in. It would make
	certain aspects of using PGP easier for them.



Lecture 67

1. Explain the PGP authentication protocol.

	A message and hash for it are created by the sender. The hash is then signed with
	the sender private key, and is attached in front of the message. The reciever then
	verifies the signature with the public key and recovers the hash code. The
	receiver then generates a new hash code for the message and compares it to the
	decrypted hash code.

		S -> R: {h(M)}K-1s, M

2. Explain the PGP confidentiality protocol.

	A message and a random session key K are created by the sender. The message is
	then encrypted with K, and K is then encrypted with the receivers public key. The
	message is then packaged with encrypted K and encrypted message. Reciever then
	gets the message and gets the key using his private key and uses K to decrypt the
	message. 

		S -> R: {K}Kr, {M}K

3. How do you get both authentication and confidentiality?

	Compose the authentication message with the protocol in question 1, then apply the
	protocol in question 2 to it. Now you have an authorized and confidential message
	that only the receiver can decrypt.



Lecture 68

1. Besides authentication and confidentiality, what other “services” does PGP
provide?

	Compression, email compatability and segmentation.

2. Why is compression needed?

	To save bandwidth by making the message smaller. This makes it easier and faster
	to send.

3. Why sign a message and then compress, rather than the other way around?

	You do not want the signature to depend on the compression algorithm. If you did
	this the other way around, you would have a dependency on the compression
	algorithm to assign the key, and you want to keep compression and your other
	services seperate.

4. Explain radix-64 conversion and why it’s needed?

	It takes a standard set of 24 bits, 3 bytes, and turns it into 4 bytes in ASCII
	characters. This is needed to ensure that there is a standard and no discrepencies
	in the message that could be read differently between different parties of the
	system or the sender and receiver. This ensures that any message sent is readable
	with its original meaning by the receiver. Helps with compatability.

5. Why is PGP segmentation needed?

	Mailers can only handle a certain length of message. This length is different
	between different mailers, and segmenting them to a size that is known acceptable
	to all mailers, this removes all problems with the length of the message being too
	long. Helps with compatablility.



Lecture 69

1. What are the four kinds of keys used by PGP?

	Session keys, public keys, private keys, and passphrase-based keys.

2. What special properties are needed of session keys?

	Can be used for symmetric encryption. It needs to be randomly generated with a
	certain length. Need high entropy, and non guessable. 

3. How are session keys generated?

	take the "previous session key and two n/2-bit block generated based on user
	keystrokes, including keystroke timing. The two block are encrypted using E and
	the previous key, and combined to form the new key."

4. Assuming RSA is used for PGP asymmetric encryption, how are the keys
generated?

	Using number theory, you generate a lot of numbers of the appropriate size, then
	test them for primality, until you find a number that is a prime. This is slow
	but acceptable, since it is not repeated often.

5. How are the private keys protected? Why is this necessary?

	It "is stored encrypted with a user-supplied passphrase". The users passphrase is
	hashed, and this uses a bit string that is used as the key for encrypting the
	private key.



Lecture 70

1. If a user has multiple private/public key pairs, how does he know which was
used when he receives an encrypted message?

	An ID is stored to identify the key. It consists of the least significant 64-bits
	of the key. This is very likely to be unique, but not neccesarily. This key is
	passed in a message so the receiver can search his keys for a match.

2. What’s on a user’s private key ring?

	You keep your private keys, their corresponding: timestamp, key ID, public key,
	and user ID. This is used for receiving messages from others.

3. What’s on a user’s public key ring?

	Stored as rows are timestamp, key ID, public key and user ID. This information is
	used for people you may want to share a message with.

4. What are the steps in retrieving a private key from the key ring?

	You type in your pass phrase. Then the pass phrase is hashed. The hash result is
	then used to encrypt or decrypt your private key, and now you have your private
	key.

5. What is the key legitimacy field for?

	This "indicates the extent to which PDP trusts that this is a valid public key for
	this user." This is used for certificates and chains of certificates.

6. How is a key revoked?

	When a comprimise is suspected of the time limit for the key has expired, the
	owner sends out a revocation certificate, which lets all other parties of the
	system that you no longer want them to consider that key as valid and they should
	not accept it. This is not forceful, just a heads up to the other parties.



Lecture 71

1. Explain the difference between the consumer and producer problems. Which
is more prevalent?

	Consumer problem: The attacker disrupts the communication between two parties in
	order to reduce availability.

	Producer problem: the attacker overwhelmns the communication channel in a way that
	reduces availability by slowing down the system. Ex. sending an overabundant
	amount of requests.

	The producer problem is more common, since it is easier to overwhelm the server.

2. Explain syn flooding.

	The client sends a message to the server, syn. Then the server sends back to the
	client the syn/ack packet and waits. Then the client sends an ack back to the
	server to tell the server he is ready to go. In a syn flooding attack the
	attacker sends the a lot of syn packets with forged and illegitimate return
	addresses, then the server allocates space in its internal memory and waits. Now
	there are a lot of half open connections flooding the internal table and the
	server is now unable to receive legitimate connections from real clients.

3. Why are the first three solutions to syn flooding not ideal?

	1: The memory is limited and if memory was increased then the attacker could just
	send more requests.

	2: This in itself is a DoS attack to legitimate clients that are slower and it
	does not let them complete the hand shake.

	3: It is hard to determine if a packet is legitimate and you do not want to be
	over analytical because you may deny legitimate packets and this in itself is a
	DoS attack.



Lecture 72

1. Why does packet filtering work very well to prevent attacks?

	It can detect illegitimate IP addresses and discard them, so it very well prevents
	attacks. However it may discard legitimate IP addresses and could also slow down
	the server.

2. What are the differences between intrusion detection and intrusion prevention systems?

	Intursion detection "reacts after the attack has begun" which is different than an
	intursion prevention system that tries to react before it actually happens, it
	does not allow the packets to get in at all.

3. Explain the four different solutions mentioned to DDoS attacks.

	Over-provisioning the network: have too many servers that it can not be
	overwhelmed

	Filtering attack: filter/distinguish the illegitimate packets from the legitimate
	ones

	Slow down processing: slow down everything, which would disproportionatly
	disadvantage attackers and make it not worth their time

	Speak-Up: request additional packets from the current senders, and the systems
	that are already sending you maliciously cannot send packets much faster. You can
	now see who has increased their output, and these should be the valid senders.



Lecture 73

1. Explain false positive and false negatives. Which is worse?

	False positive: a harmless action is identified as an attack

	False negative: a harmful action goes unnoticed as if it were harmless

	This depends on the scenerio, and what the system does.

2. Explain what “accurate” and “precise” mean in the IDS context.

	Accurate: Always detects real attacks, but may also label something harmless as an
	attack. No false negatives.

	Precise: All harmless actions go through as if they are harmless, however a
	harmful action could still be labeled as harmless. No false positives.

3. Explain the statement: “It’s easy to build an IDS that is either accurate or
precise?

	You can make an IDS with one or the other, however it is hard to make one that
	hits the sweet spot with a combination of both. A combination of both is what
	would be best in almost all cases, without sacrificing one or the other.

4. What is the base rate fallacy? Why is it relevant to an IDS?

	There is typically lots of traffic and not many of them are malicious. An attack
	is considered rare, maybe 1%. Then even if you have an accuracy of 90% this is
	still not good since you would get a lot of false positives. 92% of the time the
	alarm would be false, and he would just not use the system. If the system
	continues to raise false alarms then it will not be used at all and the chance of
	an attacker getting through would just be sunk.



Lecture 74

1. What did Code Red version 1 attempt to do?

	Took a buffer-overflow vulnerability in Microsoft's IIS webservers. Then it
	attempted to over flow the server in different ways depending on the time of the
	month.

2. Why was Code Red version 1 ineffective?

	It was considered ineffective because the worm always started from the same
	place and had a high possiblility of attacking the same machines. The same
	machines were attacked so it spread very slowly, and the government just simply
	changed the IP address so the DoS attack failed.

3. What does it mean to say that a worm is “memory resident”? What are the
implications.

	The worm resided in the volatile memory in the machine, so to get rid of the worm
	all you had to do was reboot the machine. This means it was simple to get rid of
	the worm.

4. Why was Code Red version 2 much more effective than version 1?

	It has a randomly generated seed so it was a much more truly random attacker, and
	the IP addresses were now attacking things other than just computers and it would
	crash these smaller machines much easier than the computers.



Lecture 75

1. How was Code Red II related to Code Red (versions 1 and 2)?

	The writer knew of the older attack of Code Red I because he used the words Code
	Red. The writer also used the same vulnerability that CRI used.

2. Why do you suppose Code Red II incorporated its elaborate propogation scheme?

	This would allow for some other later attack to spread more quickly if CRII was
	completed undetected. The attack that would piggyback on CRII would spread much
	much faster becuase it has a much quicker door into the machines that were
	infected.

3. What did Code Red II attempt to do?

	It attempted to install a back door into a machine if it was not already there,
	then propogating to other machines.

4. Comment on the implications of a large population of unpatched machines.

	It does not seem like it was a high prioirty to patch the machines. This could say
	that there were still a large vulnerable population in which the worm could spread
	so it would still be attempted.

5. Comment on the report from Verizon cited on slide 6. What are the lessons
of their study?

	The lesson of the study shows that we are lousy at patching our machines despite
	having the tools to patch them with. If we patched them then 9/10 of attacks could
	be avoided.



Lecture 76

1. Why is a certification regime for secure products necessary and useful?

	It is likely that the person who is buying the product is not a security expert
	and it would be expensive for every customer to go out and hire an expert to find
	a product that fits there needs and is trustworthy. To fix this problem a regime
	does this for you, and this makes it much easier to select an approved product
	that they know they can trust.

2. Explain the components of an evaluation standard.

	"A set of requirements defining security functionality" which simply tells you
	what the product functionalities cover as far as security is concerned.

	"A set of assurance requirements needed for establishing the functional
	requirements" which tells you the policy that the product uses in order to acheive
	its definition of security.

	"A methodology for determining that the functional requirements are met" which is
	a standard that tells you in which way the requirements should be tested.

	"A measure of the evaluation result indicating the trustworthiness of the
	evaluated system" which is a grade on how well the product does its job.

3. Why would crypto devices have a separate evaluation mechanism?

	Because crypto is a specialized and smaller field, that does not have as many
	experts as other fields as security.

4. Explain the four levels of certification for crypto devices.

	Level 1: basic security that uses at least on approved algorithm, an example would
	be something for home use

	Level 2: basic security with added physical security, so that you can tell if
	the device has been physically tampered with.

	Level 3: A stronger physical security than level two, with added countermeasures

	Level 4: As much physical security as possible, with zeroing of keys if the device
	is tampered with, this ensures that they do not get the information on the device.



Lecture 77

1. What is the Common Criteria?

	A set of criteria used for the evaluation of non cryptographic devices. Set of
	documents and a methodology for applying the criteria. Each country has its own
	scheme which are country specific.

2. What’s “common” about it?

	It is accepted and adopted by about 26 countries. The criteria is common and
	shared between the members.

3. Why would there be any need for “National Schemes”?

	Each country may consider certain parts of the criteria as inadequate and their
	understanding of security may be different than others.

4. Explain the difference between a protection profile and a security target.

	Protection profile: document describing a policy for a particular class of system
	which you believe should have cetain requirements. This is protecting against
	certain threats and issues. Someone who builds a product evaluates based on a
	protection profile that has already been made.

	Security target: policy, a set of security requirements with which you used to
	evaluate. You test an actual product. Tells what your product offers as its
	policies and how it meets them.

	Profile is a class of systems, and a target is a specific system.



Lecture 78

1. Explain the overall goal of the protection profile as exemplified by the WBIS
example.

	Collect and identify trash by the owner, in a way that can not be tampered with
	and the real owner is tagged.

2. What is the purpose of the various parts of the protection profile (as exemplified
in the WBIS example)?

	Data authentication: ensure that the trash belongs to the actual owner and that
	the data on the trash is true.

	Internal transfer integrity protection: data can be transfered with integrity

	Stored data integrity: stored data has integrity

3. What is the purpose of the matrix on slide 7?

	Once you fill in the matrix with requirements that you want to counter a threat,
	then every row needs to have an x in it for the attacks. That way you know all of
	the assumptions are met with some mechanism. It is a systematic way to see if the
	mechanisms you have presented will cover the problems it may face.



Lecture 79

1. Explain the overall goal of the security target evaluation as exemplified by
the Sun Identity Manager example.

	Manage user access privileges stored in directory sevices. All users are trusted
	and all time stamps are reliable.

2. How do you think that a security target evaluation differs from a protection
profile evaluation?

	It is more specific than the protection profile. It is evaluated itself saying
	that it meats certain terms, while it could have been compared to some criteria
	provided by Sun or against a protection profile.



Lecture 80

1. What are the EALs and what are they used for?

	EAL is Evaluation Assurance Level, they are used to specify how rigourously 
	something has been verified, and how trusted it can be. The higher the level the
	more rigourously it has been tested and verified.

	EAL1: Functionally Tested

	EAL2: Structurally Tested

	EAL3: Methodologically Tested and Checked

	EAL4: Methodologically Designed, Tested and Reviewed

	EAL5: Semiformally Designed and Tested

	EAL6: Semiformally Verified Design and Tested

	EAL7: Formally Verified Design and Tested

2. Who performs the Common Criteria evaluations?

	"Evaluations are performed by commercial laboratories that are certified by NIST"
	It approves or denies based on the evidence they give.

3. Speculate why the higher EALs are not necessarily mutually recognized by
various countries.

	"Certification by a country means that the evaluation was carried out carefully
	and in good faith, not that the product is suitable or secure." I believe that one
	country believes they can only trust another country up to a certain point, and
	this has been set to EAL4. There may be different standards for anything above
	this and also anything of EAL4 may be considered so important that they do not
	want to trust anyone else with the certification.

4. Can vendors certify their own products? Why or why not?

	No, because they could improperly and illegaly authorize their own product despite
	the fact that it does not actually meet the certification.

5. If you’re performing a formal evaluation, why is it probably bad to reverse
engineer the model from the code?

	The model meets all requirements and it would likely be hard to implement the
	model then add all features you want, while still having your product meet the
	criteria. Features should not be an afterthought, but should be the main priority
	of the product while also ensuring that the model is met.



Well done!

