Jetharin Kevin Charoenworawat
JKC2237
KChar
KevinCharoenworawat@gmail.com


CS 361 Questions: Week 3


Lecture 34:
1. You can't transmit more symbols than the entropy of the language supports.
2. This gives the receiving end a greater chance of interpreting the message sent.

Lecture 35:
1. -log(1/10) = 1
2. Natural languages have lots of redundancy in order to increase the chances of the message being interpreted correctly.
3. Zero order is the naive encoding.  First order takes in to account the probability of each symbol, the second order builds on this as the probability of sequential symbols is taken into account.  The third order model adds a third sequential count to the probability.

Lecture 36: 
1. There are usually countless possibilities so calculating a good prob. is nigh impossible.
2. The observer must understand how to decode the message or else everything will be incomprehensible.
3. Entropy is the goal for the reduction of redundancy.

Lecture 37:
1. This shows that cryptography is a very in-depth subject as decryption is very vague.
2. One would have the key for decryption if they are meant to receive the message and not if they are malicious.
3. Encryption should only hide the message without losing any data.
4. Shows patterns that are likely to be used in the encoding scheme.

Lecture 38:
1. This is simply the plain text.
2. This is the ciphered text.
3. This information will point them in the right direction for finding the decryption key.
4. They'll help the cryptanalyst pick up on the encoding scheme.

Lecture 39:
1. Although the encryptions are breakable its not feasible as it could take an indefinite period of time. Its also hard to recognize when you have reached success.
2. This is due to a linear search being on average successful about halfway through.
3. These are the building blocks for ciphers.
4. Confusion is the process of altering the information content so that is is not easily understood.  Diffusion is the act of spreading the important information content widely over the ciphertext.

Lecture 40:
1. A cipher based on a uniform substitution is a monoalphabetic.  A polyalphabetic substitution involves different substituions dependent on the situation.
2. The key is just the 1-1 mapping for the simple substitution.
3. This is because as a worse case scenario, one could try every single substitution possible.
4. The key is just how many positions to shift for each substitution.
5. The size of the keyspace is 26 as there are 26 letters.
6. The algorithm is not strong as it is not hard to achieve the correct key.
7. The decryption algorithm would be to form messages from the columns and the rows that correspond to the ciphered letter.

Lecture 41:
1. This is because there is 26 choices for the actual substitution for each symbol so the total number of possiblities is 26^3.
2. The reduction is due to the fact that there are 26 choices for the first symbol of x and then there are 25 remaining solutions for the ys.
3. I do not think so as a perfect cipher would imply one that has an ever adapting encoding.

Lecture 42:
1. One-time pad is perfect as the encrpytion requires xor-ing with an arbitrary plain text.  Thus the cryptanalyst must know the plain text to decode the plain text.
2. It must be random as you could elimnate a large portion of the possible plain texts if the pad is kept the same.
3. The key distribution is impractical as you must send the entire key for decryption where you might as well send the actual message and risk interception.

Lecture 43:
1. There is a limited number of possible keys to try in transpositions. More importantly, the text contents are only moved and not changed.  Thus one could determine with higher confidence what language is used and then lead towards the decrpytion key.

Lecture 44:
1. The one-time pad is asymmetric as it calls for different/random keys for encryption and decryption.
2. Key distribution is how to establish secure communication for transmitting the key where as key management deals with finding/using the corresponding key out of all the possible keys.
3. No because they must have a different key (private key) for decryption.
4. Public key systems harder to implement as they're keys are much more complicated but this provides for robustness as communication is limited. Symmetric systems are easy to implement but there will be n(n-1) keys to be made which is orders larger than public key systems.

Lecture 45:
1. High diffusion, immunity to tampering.
2. Importance is to be non-meallable so that the integrity of the message remains.
3. Allows for a user to retreive the operations done to the plain text (encoding key).

Lecture 46:
1. The step subBytes uses substitution based on an encryption table, mixColumns multiplies each column of the state by a fixed 4x4 matrix, and addRoundKey xors the state with the encryption key.
2. The step shiftRows transposes bytes by a number of bytes corresponding to the ith row.
3. You have to decrypt with the inverse fixed matrix with takes more calculations.
4. Blocks of symbols/information content are taken and ran through multiple rounds of AES for encryption.
5. Additional rounds causes for furthur difficulty of decryption.

Lecture 47:
1. Identical blocks in the plain text will remain identical in the cipher text.
2. Randomize the plain text blocks before encryption using cipher block chaining.
3. The path of encryption change can be traced over time.
4. Ciphers are used as PRNGs to make a stream for a one-time pad.

Lecture 48:
1. The Kpriv key must be kept secret.
2. Because they're easy to compute for encryption but are difficult to invert without additional information.
3. Communication is simpler with less keys as the intended receiver is the only one capabale of decryption.

Lecture 49:
1. Yes because the two keys are used in a symmetric fashion.
2. If you know the prime number then it is relatively simple to deduce the other number involved in the encryption.
3. Only if you have additional information on the one-way functions and lots of time.
4. Because only A can decrypt with their private key.
5. Because anyone might have As public key.
6. No one but B has that same private key.
7. You can decrypt with the public key as the encrpytion was done with the private key.
8. B would need one key for authenticity and one for privacy.

Lecture 50:
1. So that the process of encryption confusion is fast.
2. A strong collision is when two messages have the same hash value.  A weak collision is when you're given a hash value and find a message that hashes to the said value.
3. Second preimage resistance is finding a second of a preimage reistant value.
4. 1.25*sqrt(2^128)
5. 1.25*sqrt(2^160)
6. A given message may still be transferred even if it is hashed but it is easy to determine if the integrity has been compromised as one bit throws everything off.
7. Collision resistance
8. B can hash the message after using a signed key on the message.

Lecture 51:
1. Yes but it may have not arrived with confidentiality as everyone has Ss public key.
2. No as only the sender has the private key so this order must be kept.
3. No this is not equivalent
4. Key exchange involves two levels of encryption.

Lecture 52:
1. The eavesdropper would be able to read the transferred messages.
2. The process of encryption could be changed.
3. The process of decryption could be altered.

