Name: Gerardo Gamboa
EID: gg8745
cs_login: jergamb
email: ggambo_13@utexas.edu

				CS361 Questions Week 4

Lecture 53
1. Because the signature on the check confirms authenticity.
2. Because the signature cannot be detached and reused for another message.3. That only the person with the signature can decrypt the signature.

Lecture 54
1. A public key and user’s identity are bound together within a certificate.
2. Because X is believed to be a trusted source and we trust their vouch for who we are sending the message too. 
3. Because you will then know that the message certifies the binding of Y and Ky and the data items Y and Ky were not altered or corrupted.4. Then Z wouldn’t know whether the message is trustworthy. 

Lecture 55
1. The chain is rooted at some unimpeachable authority.
2. Because you want to be able to see that it is not an old certificate or one that has been reused.
3. Verify the signature and check the validity interval to see where something could have changed the hash values. Lecture 56
1. RSA
2. It could mess up the encryption.
3. The two parties don’t share a secret/key.
4. If they had A’s private key.
5. By using A’s private key again.
6. By using B’s private key.
7. Because an eavesdropper who stores the three messages can XOR combinations of them to extract any of M, Ka, and Kb.

Lecture 57
1. Sending an email or moving a file.
2. Cryptographic protocols help achieve the goals.
3. public key infrastructure.
4. To communicate between A and B (A->B)
5. Yes

Lecture 58
1. Efficiency
2. Its so that you know when its appropriate to encrypt and how crucial encrypting it will be.

Lecture 591. The best attack is something we haven’t thought of and is purposely evaluate.
2. Corruption of files.
3. Yes.
4. Its hard to specify.
5. The systems are distributed and must be designed so that messages are sent then received before a protocol can be put in place/action.Lecture 60
1. No because we won’t know if the message is fresh and could be a replay from an earlier exchange.
2. - A is sending S (A, B, Na)
   - A sent the message

   - S is sending A {Na, B, Kab, {Kab, A}Kbs}Kas
   - S sent the message

   - A is sending B {Kab, A}Kbs
   - A sent the message

   - B is sending A {Nb}Kab
   - B sent the message

   - A is sending B {Nb-1}kab
   - A sent the message	
Lecture 61
1. A might be able to send messages to B.
2. No
3. Maybe start the whole protocol over because it has been compromised.

Lecture 62
1. You are always able to look at the session identifier.
2. The session identifier in addition to nonces.
3. Maybe you can have A check to see if they did send the message.

Lecture 63
1. Because it validates that the protocol is running in the correct way.
2. Allows reasoning about what principals within the protocol should be able to infer from the message they see. Allows abstract proofs, but may miss some important flaws.
3. You have to postulate some reasonable initial assumptions about the state of knowledge/belief of the principles. 

Lecture 64
1. Is a type of formal logic that extends classical propositional and predicate logic to include operators expressing modality.
2. If A believes (A share(K)B) and A sees {X}k then A believes (B said X).
3. If A believes X is fresh and A believes B once said X, then A believes B believes X.
4. If A believes B has jurisdiction over X and A believes X, then A believes X.
5. Idealization is the process of getting protocol steps to logical inferences.

Lecture 65
1. Because plaintext can be forged.
2. Idealization of the protocol is not defined unambiguously. It depends on the interpretation of the meaning of some steps. 
3. One purpose of idealization is to omit parts of the message that do not contribute to the beliefs of the recipients. Idealization of the protocol is not defined unambigiuosly. 










