Name: Kevin ByersEID: kb25543CS Login: kevinbEmail: Kevin.byers.tennis@gmail.com
			CS361 Questions: Week 5

1. What is PGP?
An extremely strong email encryption system that uses state of the art cryptographic algorithms, is easy to use, and is accessible to all.
2. What motivated Phil Zimmerman to develop it?
Zimmermann had a strong distrust of the government and believed in everyone's absolute right to privacy.
3. Does PGP provide effective security?
Yes, PGP provides effective security.
4. If PGP is freeware, why would anyone bother to purchase support?
To make sure it is compatible with the system you are using and addresses your specific security goals.

Lecture 67
1. Explain the PGP authentication protocol.
A sender creates a message M, hashes M, signs M using their private key, and prepends the result to the message.  The receiver uses the sender's public key to verify the signature and recover the hash code.  After generating the new hash code for M, the receiver compares it to the decrypted hash code to make sure the message has not been tampered with.
2. Explain the PGP confidentiality protocol.
The sender generates a message M and a random session key K.  M is encrypted using key K.  K is encrypted using the recipient's public key, and prepended to the message.  The receiver uses their private key to recover the session key and uses that to decrypt the message.
3. How do you get both authentication and confidentiality?
You can apply the authentication step to the original message and then apply the confidentiality step to the resulting message.

Lecture 68
1. Besides authentication and confidentiality, what other “services” does PGP provide?
Compression, email compatibility and segmentation.
2. Why is compression needed?
To make the system more robust and efficient.
3. Why sign a message and then compress, rather than the other way around? Encryption after compression strengthens the encryption, since compression reduces redundancy in the message.
4. Explain radix-64 conversion and why it’s needed?
Radix-64 converts groups of three octets into four ASCII characters and appends a CRC for data error checking to make sure the email systems don't choke on certain bit strings that they interpret as commands.
5. Why is PGP segmentation needed?
Segmentation breaks longer messages into segments that can be mailed separately, because most email systems restrict message length.

Lecture 69
1. What are the four kinds of keys used by PGP?
Session keys, public keys, private keys, and passphrase-based keys.
2. What special properties are needed of session keys?
The size of the key depending on the chosen encryption algorithm.
3. How are session keys generated?
An encryption algorithm is used to generate a session key from a previous session key.
4. Assuming RSA is used for PGP asymmetric encryption, how are the keys generated?
You generate a new n-bit key, by taking the previous session key and two n/2-bit blocks generated based on user keystrokes, including keystroke timing. The two blocks are encrypted using E and the previous key, and combined to form the new key.
5. How are the private keys protected? Why is this necessary?
There is a passphrase system to provide confidentiality since the system depends on protecting those private keys.

Lecture 70
1. If a user has multiple private/public key pairs, how does he know which was used when he receives an encrypted message?
An id is generated for the pair and an associate search is done to see which one matches.
2. What’s on a user’s private key ring?
Table of rows containing timestamps, key IDs, public keys, private keys, and user IDs.
3. What’s on a user’s public key ring?
A table of rows containing timestamps, key IDs, public keys, and user IDs.
4. What are the steps in retrieving a private key from the key ring?
PGP retrieves receiver’s encrypted private key from the private-key ring, using the Key ID field in the session key component of the message as an index.  PGP prompts the user for the passphrase  to recover the unencrypted private key.  PGP recovers the session key and decrypts the message
5. What is the key legitimacy field for?
It indicates the extent to which PGP trusts that this is a valid public key for this user.
6. How is a key revoked?
The owner issues a signed-key revocation certificate. Recipients are expected to update their public-key rings.

Lecture 71
1. Explain the difference between the consumer and producer problems. Which is more prevalent?
The consumer problem occurs when the attacker gets logically between the client and service and somehow disrupts the communication. The producer problem occurs when the attacker produces, offers, or requests so many services that the server is overwhelmed. The producer problem is more prevalent.
2. Explain syn flooding.
A SYN FLooding attack happens when an attacker forges the return address on a number of SYN packets. The server fills its table with these half-open connections
3. Why are the first three solutions to syn flooding not ideal?
They would consuming considerable resources, disallow connections by slower clients, or have trouble determining when a packet is legitimate or not.

Lecture 72
1. Why does packet filtering work very well to prevent attacks?
It can detect patterns of identifiers in the request stream and block messages in that patter.  
2. What are the differences between intrusion detection and intrusion prevention systems?
Intrusion Detection can analyze traffic patterns and react to anomalous patterns, but intrusion prevention attempts to prevent intrusions by more aggressively blocking attempted attacks.
3. Explain the four different solutions mentioned to DDoS attacks.
Over-provisioning the network (having too many servers to be overwhelmed), filtering attack packets (somehow distinguishing the attack packets from regular packets), slow down processing (disadvantages all requestors, but perhaps disproportionately disadvantages attackers), “speak up” solution (request additional traffic from all requestors).

Lecture 73
1. Explain false positive and false negatives. Which is worse?
False negatives are when a genuine attack is not detected and false positives are when a harmless behavior is misclassified as an attack. It depends on the system you are talking about.
2. Explain what “accurate” and “precise” mean in the IDS context.
Accurate means it detects all genuine attacks while precise means it never has false positives.
3. Explain the statement: “It’s easy to build an IDS that is either accurate or precise?
It is very hard to do both simultaneously, but just having one or the other would not be a very effective system.
4. What is the base rate fallacy? Why is it relevant to an IDS?
Detection accuracy of an IDS has to be extremely high for a system to be effective.

Lecture 74
1. What did Code Red version 1 attempt to do?
If the date of the attack was between the 1st and the 19th of the month, it generated a random list of IP addresses and attempted to infect the machines. On the 20th to the 28th of the month it launched a DoS flooding attack at the White House.
2. Why was Code Red version 1 ineffective?
It used a static seed in its random number generator which generated identical lists of IP addresses on each infected machine. Also, each infected machine probed the same list of machines causing the worm to spread slowly.
3. What does it mean to say that a worm is “memory resident”? What are the implications.
The machine can be disinfected by simply rebooting the machine, because the worm resides in the machine's memory.
4. Why was Code Red version 2 much more effective than version 1?
The seed was randomly generated which cause it to spread much faster.

Lecture 75
1. How was Code Red II related to Code Red (versions 1 and 2)?
It exploited the same vulnerabilities.
2. Why do you suppose Code Red II incorporated its elaborate propagation scheme?
To spread the worm effectively.
3. What did Code Red II attempt to do?
It infects a new host, it waits to see if the system has already been infected. If not, the worm initiates its propagation mechanism, sets up a “backdoor” into the infected machine, becomes dormant for a day, and then reboots the machine. 
4. Comment on the implications of a large population of unpatched machines.
It created a large group that was vulnerable to become hosts of this worm.
5. Comment on the report from Verizon cited on slide 6. What are the lessons of their study?
Security update patches are important.

Lecture 76
1. Why is a certification regime for secure products necessary and useful?
They help the consumer understand what they need and what they're buying using a standardized process of independent evaluation.
2. Explain the components of an evaluation standard.
A set of requirements defining security functionality, a set of assurance requirements needed for establishing the functional requirements, a methodology for determining that the functional requirements are met, and a measure of the evaluation result indicating the trustworthiness of the evaluated system.
3. Why would crypto devices have a separate evaluation mechanism?
So that the evaluation can be independent containing no bias.
4. Explain the four levels of certification for crypto devices.
Level 1 is basic security containing at least one approved algorithm or function, level 2 has improved physical security and tamper-evident packaging, level 3 has strong tamper-resistance and countermeasures, and level 4 has a complete envelope of protection including immediate zeroing of keys upon tampering.

Lecture 77
1. What is the Common Criteria?
A set of standards recognized by 26 countries.
2. What’s “common” about it?
The acronyms and recognition.
3. Why would there be any need for “National Schemes”?
So you can have country-specific evaluation methodologies.
4. Explain the difference between a protection profile and a security target.
Protection profile is a formal description of security for a class of systems, but a security target is a specific system or family of systems.

Lecture 78
1. Explain the overall goal of the protection profile as exemplified by the WBIS example.
To provide a systematic way of deciding whether threats and assumptions are being addressed by mechanisms and requirements.
2. What is the purpose of the various parts of the protection profile (as exemplified in the WBIS example)?
To organize everything in specific categories.
3. What is the purpose of the matrix on slide 7?
It is a mapping from threats, assumptions to security objectives and requirements.

Lecture 79
1. Explain the overall goal of the security target evaluation as exemplified by the Sun Identity Manager example.
To specify what security means for a specific product and how the product enforces that notion of security.
2. How do you think that a security target evaluation differs from a protection profile evaluation?
A protection profile is specific to every product, but a target evaluation explains what the product is supposed to do and how it accomplishes that.

Lecture 80
1. What are the EALs and what are they used for?
Evaluation assurance levels used to define the care with which the product was developed and the rigor of the evaluation process.
2. Who performs the Common Criteria evaluations?
Independent labs.
3. Speculate why the higher EALs are not necessarily mutually recognized by various countries.
Various countries have a mutual mistrust of one another.
4. Can vendors certify their own products? Why or why not?
No, the certification would be biased and untrustworthy.
5. If you’re performing a formal evaluation, why is it probably bad to reverse engineer the model from the code?
You will only see the security concerns directly in front of you and not evaluate the product in a broad and meticulous way.
Well done!
