Name: Jose Bigio
EID: JAB7677
CS Login: jose
Email: josebigio@utexas.edu

Lecture 34

Why is it impossible to transmit a signal over a channel at an average rate
greater than C/h?
	Because it is impossible to get a better encoding the one set by h. In other words, h has to be smaller to get a better c/h. Since h is the optimal, then it is impossible to improve c/h


How can increasing the redundancy of the coding scheme increase the reliability
 of transmitting a message over a noisy channel?
 	More repeated messages are being sent and can bypass the noise. For example if English has a lot of redundancy. If sent "Hello how are you?" but because of noise it got butchered into "Hllo how r u?", the receiver could still decipher the message

Lecture 35

If we want to transmit a sequence of the digits 0-9. According to the zero-order model,
 what is the entropy of the language?
 -(log2(1/10)) = 3.32192809489

 What are reasons why computing the entropy of a natural language is difﬁ-
cult?
	Because there are a lot of factors involved. For example, should you model it as a first order model, second order model? 

Explain the difference between zero, first, second and third-order models.
	Zero order model assumes every every symbol has the same probability
	First order model assumes every symbol has a different probability but has zero memory
	Second order model recognizes that given 2 symbols, the second one is dependent of the probability of the first
	The third order model recognizes that 3 letter combinations have a inherent probability


Lecture 36

Why are prior probabilities sometimes impossible to compute
	Because they dependent on the information of the subject.

Why is the information content of a message relative to the state of knowledge of an an observer?
	Borrowing from the academy awards example: The auditors know who will win with 100% probability but the regular audience thinks ever nominee has an equal chance.

Explain the relationship between entropy and redundancy?
	The closer an encoding is to its entropy the less redundancy it has

Lecture 37

List your observations along with their relevance to cryptography about Captain Kidd's encrypted message.
	The goat head means that the language is English since its the only one in which kidd relates to goats.
	Since it was done by a pirate, they cypher can't be that complicated. Maybe its just a simple substitution algorithm
	Since its in English, the most repeated symbol is likely the letter E

Explain why a key may be optimal for the process of encryption or decryption
	For example if I encrypt a message, if I use keyA, then I can limit the people that decipher my text to only those that have the keyA. In other words, it gives more control as to whom can decipher the cypher.

What effect does encrypting a file have on its information content?
	A good encryption process should have no effect on the information content

How can redundancy in the source give clues to the decoding process?
	It gives leverage to the attacker. It 

Lecture 38

Rewrite the following in its simplest form: D(E(D(E(P)))).
	P

Rewrite the following in its simplest form: D(E(E(P, KE), KE), KD).
	 E(P, KE)

Why might a cryptanalyst want to recognize patterns in encrypted messages
	To break they cypher

How might properties of language be of use to a cryptanalyst?
	For example in English, E is the most used letter. The analyst can use this fact to decipher the key

Lecture 39

Explain why an encryption algorithm, while breakable, may not be feasible
to break?
	Because it would take to many resources to break it. For example some cyphers may take 100k years

Why, given a small number of plaintext/ciphertext pairs encrypted under
key K, can K be recovered by exhaustive search in an expected time on the
order of 2^(n−1) operations?
	because it takes 2^(n-1) operations to have tried every single possibility in the key space

Explain why substitution and transposition are both important in ciphers.
	Because they open the path into the domain of diffusion and confusion. Both Confusion and diffusion are equally important.
	Substitution generally leads to confusion and transposition to diffusion

Explain the difference between confusion and diffusion.
	confusion is replacing a symbol in the plain text and replacing by something else. Diffusion is spreading a segment of information across the cypher file.

Is confusion or diffusion better for encryption?
	No, they are both equally important.

Lecture 40

What is the difference between monoalphabetic and polyalphabetic substitution?
	In monoalphabetic substitution every symbol is replaced by something else uniformly
	In polyalphabetic this is done depending on where they symbol is located in the plain the text

What is the key in a simple substitution cipher?.
	It could be a table. For example A=D, B=E,..., Z=C

Why are there k! mappings from plaintext to ciphertext alphabets in simple substitution
	Because for the first symbol you have K options, for the second one you have K-1, the first is K-2. All the combinations possible is the multiplication of them: (k)(k-1)(k-2)(k-3).... = k!

What is the key in the Caesar Cipher example?
	A = C, B = D...

What is the size of the keyspace in the Caesar Cipher example?
	26

Is the Caesar Cipher algorithm strong?
	No. It can be desiphered in less than 2^(n-1) operations

What is the corresponding decryption algorithm to the Vigenere ciphertext example?
	For example to decipher the first letter, you take the cypher, look at the row for that letter. Finally find the letter in that row that matches the key. The corresponding letter at the top of that column is the original letter

Lecture 41

Why are there 17576 possible decryptions for the “xyy” encoding on slide
3?
	Because the x can any of the 26 greek alphabet characters, the first y the same, and the second one too. 26*26*26 = 17576

Why is the search space for question 2 on slide 3 reduced by a factor of 27?
	Because you know that the first y must be same as the second y. Also, you know that y and x must be different. With that said: 26*25 = 650
	17576/650 = 27

Do you think a perfect cipher is possible? Why or why not?
	No. It might exist in the realm of mathematics but in real life, there are too many factors that come into play

Lecture 42

Explain why the one-time pad offers perfect encryption.
	Because even if he tries every possible key combination, then he still wont know what the message is. For example, if he intercepted 101 and tried all the 8 possible keys, how would he know which is the original message?

Why is it important that the key in a one-time pad be random?
	Because if there is some pattern, for example that it has an even amount of 0's; then in the 3 bit example, the key space has just been reduced from 8 to 3. 

Explain the key distribution problem
	If there is a way to distribute the key needed to decipher the text, then why don't just use that medium to give the actual message?	

Lecture 43

What is a downside to using encryption by transposition?
	For example, you could figure out that the language is English. To do this, you can count the frequency of each symbol and see if it matches the frequency count English has

Lecture 44

Is a one-time pad a symmetric or asymmetric algorithm?
	Symmetric. You use the same key for encryption and decryption

Describe the difference between key distribution and key management.
	Key distribution is about distributing keys (the first step) and key management is about preserving them (the second step)

If someone gets a hold of Ks, can he or she decrypt S’s encrypted messages?
Why or why not?
	If it uses symmetric encryption then yes. But if it uses asymmetric encryption no. The subject would need the private key Ks^(-1)

Are symmetric encryption systems or public key systems better?
	As a novice in the field of security I would say public key systems are better. They require less amount of key pairs and solve the key distribution problem

Lecture 45
Why do you suppose most modern symmetric encryption algorithms are
block ciphers?
	The disadvantages of block encryptions are that they are slow to generate and prone to error. Since machines have gotten so powerfull, they can over come those disadvantages now. Also, everything is in terms of bytes which is a group of 8 bits

What is the significance of malleability?
	That an attacker can easily change the meaning of the message. For example he figures out the "not" pattern and removes them. Then the message would have the opposite result

What is the significance of homomorphic encryption?
	 a form of encryption which allows specific types of computations to be carried out on ciphertext and generate an encrypted result which, when decrypted, matches the result of operations performed on the plaintext

Lecture 46
Which of the 4 steps in AES uses confusion and how is it done?
	subBytes. Replace the byte with another byte

Which of the 4 steps in AES uses diffusion and how is it done?
	shiftRows. It is done by shifting every byte by a set amount depending on its position 

3. Why does decryption in AES take longer than encryption?
	Because inverting the mixColumn step takes longer

4. Describe the use of blocks and rounds in AES.
	It uses blocks of 128 bits
	It uses a different amount of rounds depending on the size of the key. 

5. Why would one want to increase the total number of Rounds in AES?
	To make the encryption more powerful. It generates a key with a bigger search space making it harder to decrypt.

Lecture 47
What is a disadvantage in using ECB mode?
	That every repeated block will produce the same result. So one can easily desypher the encrypted message.

How can this ﬂaw be ﬁxed?
	With Cyber block chaining

What are potential weaknesses of CBC?
	Observed changes and content leak

How is key stream generation different from standard block encryption
modes?
	In key stream encryption, the algorithm is used a pseudo random generator.

Lecture 48

For public key systems, what must be kept secret in order to ensure secrecy?
	The private key		

Why are one-way functions critical to public key systems?
	So i can generate a public key easily from my public key but no one can revert the process.

How do public key systems largely solve the key distribution problem?
	Because I don't need to distribute my key. By making my public key available to everyone; if someone wants to send me a message, he would encrypt that message with my public key (which has a relation with my private key); then I can decrypt it using my private key which I invented and never had to expose it.

Simplify the following according to RSA rules: {{{P}K−1}K}K−1.
	{P}k-1

Compare the efﬁciency of asymmetric algorithms and symmetric algorithms.
	Symmetric algorithms are much more efficent. For example a public key encryption might take 10k as long as a symmetric one.


Lecture 49

1. If one generated new RSA keys and switched the public and private keys, would the algorithm still work? Why or why not?
	Yes it would work because you can encrypt a

2. Explain the role of prime numbers in RSA.
	Its their one way function. For example if I knew the prime numbers used are 5,3,7, then I can generate 105. It would be really hard for someone which prime numbers produce 105.

3. Is RSA breakable?
	Yes but it takes a really long time

4. Why can no one intercepting {M}Ka read the message?
	Because they don't have A's private key

5. Why can’t A be sure {M}Ka came from B?
	Because A's public key is available to anyone so the message could of came from Z

6. Why is A sure {M}K−1b originated with B?
	Because only B has the private key

7. How can someone intercepting {M}K−1b read the message?
	By decrypting it using B's public key

8. How can B ensure authentication as well as confidentiality when sending a message to A?
	By having an extra set of keys for confidentiality

Lecture 50

1. Why is it necessary for a hash function to be easy to compute for any given
data?
	This can be explained in the following example. Suppose, I have a file which is 3gb, and I want to see if another file is exactly the same. 
	Comparing bit by bit would take a long time. Instead, I could hash them both to produce a 10mb file and then compare them. This would only be faster if the hash function is really fast.
	

What is the key difference between strong and weak collision resistance of
a hash function
	Weak collision resistance means that given an input and the hash it produces, it is hard to find another input that produces that same hash.
	Strong collision resistance means that it is difficult for two different strings to hash to the same function.
	
What is the difference between preimage resistance and second preimage
resistance?
	preimage resistance means that given a hash, it is difficult to find an input that produces the same hash.
	Second preimage adds more layers. It means that given a hash and an input m that produces that hash; it is still hard to find another input that produces that same hash

What are the implications of the birthday attack on a 128 bit hash value?
	H = 2^128
	1.25*sqrt(2^128) = 1.25*2^64 = 2.3e19. It would take 2.3E19 computations until you get a collision

What are the implications of the birthday attack on a 160 bit hash value?
	H = 2^160
	1.25*sqrt(2^160) = 1.25*2^80 = 1.5E24. It would take 1.5E24 computations until you get a collision

Why aren’t cryptographic hash functions used for confidentiality?
	Because their beauty relies on the fact that it makes to large items easy to compare. That is an aspect of integrity, not confidentiality

What attribute of cryptographic hash functions ensures that message M is bound to H(M), and therefore tamper-resistant?
	it is extremely unlikely that two different messages will have the same hash.

Using RSA and a cryptographic hash function, how can B securely send a
message to A and guarantee both conﬁdentiality and integrity?
	B wants to send the message "ABC...".
	B hashes the message to produce "Z"
	B reads A's public key and encrypts it
	B sends the cypher "XXX" and  the hash "Z"
	A decrypts the cypher using his private key to produce "ABC.."
	if "ABC..." hashes to Z, then the message was losless and integrity was preserved.


Lecture 51

For key exchange, if S wants to send key K to R, can S send the following
message: {{K}KS−1}K−1R? Why or why not?
	No. anyone can read that message. Anyone can get R's public key and get {K}KS−1. After, anyone can use S's public key to get K

In the third attempt at key exchange on slide 5, could S have done the encryptions
in the other order? Why or why not?
	Yes. R can get {K}kr by decripting using S's public key. At this point he has assured that the message came from M. Next, R can use his private key to get K. Since only R can do this last step, confidentiality is also achieved

Is {{{K}KS−1}KR}KSequivalent to {{K}K−1S}KR?
	No. In the first, you need to have R's and S's private key to desypher it. In the second one you only need R's private key

What are the requirements of key exchange and why?
	That the public key algorithm is similar to RSA in the sense that you can encrypt and decrypt with either public or private key. If this wasn't so, then R wouldn't be able to decipher the message since he only has access to its public key which would be used for encryption and not decryption.


Lecture 52

What would happen if g, p and gamodp were known by an eavesdropper listening in on a Difﬁe-Hellman exchange?
	Nothing to worry about. He would still need b

What would happen if a were discovered by an eavesdropper listening in on a Difﬁe-Hellman exchange?
	Nothing, he would still need b

What would happen if b were discovered by an eavesdropper listening in on a Difﬁe-Hellman exchange?
	Then he could figure out the key. (assuming he also knows gamodp, g and p)


