Name:Drew Zoellner
EID:dtz64
CS Login:drew2222
Email:andrewzoellner@hotmail.com


CS361 Questions: Week 5
Lecture 66
1. What is PGP?

pretty good privacy

2. What motivated Phil Zimmerman to develop it?

he wanted to provide strong encryption to everyone

3. Does PGP provide effective security?

no

4. If PGP is freeware, why would anyone bother to purchase support?

for updates and bug fixes

Lecture 67
1. Explain the PGP authentication protocol.

S→R : {h(M)}K−1S, M

2. Explain the PGP conﬁdentiality protocol.

S→R : {K}Kr, {M}K

3. How do you get both authentication and conﬁdentiality?

Both of these abstract descriptions must be satisfied.

Lecture 68
1. Besides authentication and conﬁdentiality, what other “services” does PGP
provide?

Security

2. Why is compression needed?

So more information can be sent over the channel per unit time.

3. Why sign a message and then compress, rather than the other way around?

The signature might be large.

4. Explain radix-64 conversion and why it’s needed?

This conversion aides in security as it causes confusion.

5. Why is PGP segmentation needed?

So that information can be sent over a channel without any loss.

Lecture 69
1. What are the four kinds of keys used by PGP?

session, public, private, passphrase-based keys.

2. What special properties are needed of session keys?

they must be used once

3. How are session keys generated?

key generator

4. Assuming RSA is used for PGP asymmetric encryption, how are the keys
generated?

key generator

5. How are the private keys protected? Why is this necessary?

They are held tightly to the vest, only public keys should be seen by just anyone

Lecture 70
1. If a user has multiple private/public key pairs, how does he know which was
used when he receives an encrypted message?

key management ensures the pairing of keys to their correct users

2. What’s on a user’s private key ring?

private keys

3. What’s on a user’s public key ring?

public keys

4. What are the steps in retrieving a private key from the key ring?

getting permission first before retrieving the key

5. What is the key legitimacy ﬁeld for?

to ensure that the correct keys are being used by the correct people

6. How is a key revoked?

it might have been compromised
Lecture 71
1. Explain the difference between the consumer and producer problems. Which
is more prevalent?

the consumer problem: (also called “man-in-the-middle”
attack) the attacker gets logically between the client and
service and somehow disrupts the communication
the producer problem: the attacker produces, oﬀers or
requests so many services that the server is overwhelmed.

2. Explain syn ﬂooding.

A SYN Flooding attack happens when an attacker forges the return address on a number of SYN packets.

3. Why are the ﬁrst three solutions to syn ﬂooding not ideal?

they don’t completely solve the problem.

Lecture 72
1. Why does packet ﬁltering work very well to prevent attacks?

it filters out the packets that are susceptible to attacks

2. What are the differences between intrusion detection and intrusion prevention systems?

intrusion detection allows for an intrusion to be found, but a prevention system keeps them from happening in the first place.

3. Explain the four different solutions mentioned to DDoS attacks.

1 over-provisioning the network—have too many servers to be
overwhelmed (expensive and unworkable);
2 ﬁltering attack packets—somehow distinguish the attack
packets from regular packets (may not be possible);
3 slow down processing—disadvantages all requestors, but
perhaps disproportionately disadvantages attackers;
4 “Speak-up” solution (Mike Walﬁsh)—request additional traﬃc from all requestors.

Lecture 73
1. Explain false positive and false negatives. Which is worse?

False negatives:
a genuine attack is not detected.
False positives:
harmless behavior is mis-classiﬁed as an attack.

False negatives are worse.

2. Explain what “accurate” and “precise” mean in the IDS context.

accurate:
if it detects all genuine attacks;
precise:
if it never reports legitimate behavior as an attack.

3. Explain the statement: “It’s easy to build an IDS that is either accurate or
precise?

its easy to do one, but not both at the same time

4. What is the base rate fallacy? Why is it relevant to an IDS?

the IDS classiﬁes an attack as an attack with probability 90%
the IDS classiﬁes a valid connection as attack with probability 10%

Lecture 74
1. What did Code Red version 1 attempt to do?

Each infected machine probed the same list of machines, so
the worm spread slowly.

2. Why was Code Red version 1 ineffective?

The IP address for www1.whitehouse.gov was changed so the DoS attack failed.

3. What does it mean to say that a worm is “memory resident”? What are the
implications.

the worm exists in the systems memory.

4. Why was Code Red version 2 much more effective than version 1?

Version 2 had a much greater impact on global infrastructure
due to the sheer volume of hosts infected and probes sent to
infect new hosts.
Lecture 75
1. How was Code Red II related to Code Red (versions 1 and 2)?

They were both attacks

2. Why do you suppose Code Red II incorporated its elaborate propogation
scheme?

It tried to correct the problems created in Code Red I.

3. What did Code Red II attempt to do?

Fix Code Red I problems.

4. Comment on the implications of a large population of unpatched machines.

Many outdated machines will be unlatched over time.

5. Comment on the report from Verizon cited on slide 6. What are the lessons
of their study?

Fixes were available to prevent attacks before the attacks happened.

Lecture 76
1. Why is a certiﬁcation regime for secure products necessary and useful?

It’s safer to ensure that data can’t be compromised.

2. Explain the components of an evaluation standard.

A set of requirements deﬁning security functionality.
A set of assurance requirements needed for establishing the
functional requirements.
A methodology for determining that the functional
requirements are met.
A measure of the evaluation result indicating the
trustworthiness of the evaluated system.

3. Why would crypto devices have a separate evaluation mechanism?

To test their own software essentially.

4. Explain the four levels of certiﬁcation for crypto devices.

Level 1:
basic security; at least one approved algorithm or
function.
Level 2:
improved physical security, tamper-evident packaging.
Level 3:
strong tamper-resistance and countermeasures.
Level 4:
complete envelope of protection including immediate
zeroing of keys upon tampering.

Lecture 77
1. What is the Common Criteria?

the CC documents,
the CC Evaluation Methodology (CEM),
country-speciﬁc evaluation methodologies called an Evaluation Scheme or National Scheme.

2. What’s “common” about it?

everyone uses it.

3. Why would there be any need for “National Schemes”?

A basis for security.

4. Explain the difference between a protection proﬁle and a security target.

profile is the info, while security target is the spot of attack

Lecture 78
1. Explain the overall goal of the protection proﬁle as exempliﬁed by the WBIS
example.

Trash containers have ID tags, read via short-range radio by
trucks
that weigh them as trash is collected, stores the informatio
n and
later transmits it to government oﬃces for billing. ID tags co
ntain
numbers that are unique but not conﬁdential.

2. What is the purpose of the various parts of the protection proﬁle (as exemplified in the WBIES example)?

A.ID: the tag is attached to the waste bin
A.Trusted: the crew is authorized and trustworthy
A.Access: access to the system is protected
A.Check: operator checks at intervals that the data transfe
r is
complete
A.Backup: operator makes backup copies of the data at
intervals

3. What is the purpose of the matrix on slide 7?

maps threats to security objectives

Lecture 79
1. Explain the overall goal of the security target evaluation as exempliﬁed by
the Sun Identity Manager example.

reduce threats

2. How do you think that a security target evaluation differs from a protection
proﬁle evaluation?

they know who is attacking

Lecture 80
1. What are the EALs and what are they used for?

EAL1:
Functionally Tested
EAL2:
Structurally Tested
EAL3:
Methodologically Tested and Checked
EAL4:
Methodologically Designed, Tested and Reviewed
EAL5:
Semiformally Designed and Tested
EAL6:
Semiformally Veriﬁed Design and Tested
EAL7:
Formally Veriﬁed Design and Tested

2. Who performs the Common Criteria evaluations?

cc certificate

3. Speculate why the higher EALs are not necessarily mutually recognized by
various countries.

no EALs can be mutually recognized.

4. Can vendors certify their own products? Why or why not?

no

5. If you’re performing a formal evaluation, why is it probably bad to reverse
engineer the model from the code?

it would take too long!

Well done!