Name: Ruben Baeza
UTEID: rb27735
CS login: rb27735
email: ruben.baeza@utexas.edu


CS361 Questions: Week 4

Lecture 53
1. Why is it important for a digital signature to be non reusable?
	In order to preserve authenticity and be secure.

2. Why is it the hash of the message typically signed, rather than the message
itself?
	Because it is typically the hash of the message that is sent and thus the 
	signature should be visible in order to verify that it came from the correct
	source.

3. What assurance does R gain from the interchange on slide 4?
	R knows the message was not forged, it was authentic, S cannot deny writing the
	message, only R can remove the outer layer and the signature is non reusable.

Lecture 54
1. What is the importance of certificate authorities?
	In order to prove that the certificates are valid and trustworthy.

2. In the example on slide 5, why does X sign the hash of the first message
with its private key?
	To use it as a certificate and to prove that Y is trustworthy.

3. Why is it necessary to have a hash of Y and Ky?
	in order to prove that Y has a certificate.

4. What would happen if Z had a public key for X, but it was not trustworthy?
	Then the data could be compromised.

Lecture 55
1. What happens at the root of a chain of trust?
	A third party vouches for one of the parties involved.

2. Why does an X.509 certificate include a “validity interval”?
	To establish whether the certificate is still valid, that way one certificate
	can't be used forever.

3. What would it mean if the hash and the received value did not match?
	This could mean that the data was altered or compromised and thus the certificate
	isn't trustworthy.
	

Lecture 56
1. What are some protocols previously discussed?
	EAS protocols, one time pad protocols, etc..

2. What may happen if one step of a protocol is ignored?
	The entire message may be compromised or the message may not be retrievable.

3. Why must the ciphers commute in order to accomplish the task in slide 4?
	so that they can be removed after applying more than one.

4. Describe how an attacker can extract M from the protocol in slide 6.
	XOR again with the same values. This will cancel out.

5. Describle how an attacker can extract Ka from the protocol in slide 6.
	They can XOR again with Kb leaving only M XOR Ka. Then XOR with Ka and retrieve
	the message XOR with message then XOR with Message to retrieve Ka.

6. Describle how an attacker can extract Kb from the protocol in slide 6.
	Same as Ka but with knowledge about Ka being cancelled out after step 3. Then XOR
	again with M will give B.

7. Why are cryptographic protocols difficult to design and easy to get wrong?
	Because there are many steps and they can have various holes and flaws such as
	with the XORs cancelling out.

Lecture 57
1. Explain the importance of protocols in the context of the internet.
	Protocols allow us to retrieve information in the correct order and be able
	to understand messages exchanged between each other. So a client and a server
	can communicate and understand each other's request and deliver the information 
	in the correct order.

2. Explain the importance of cryptographic protocols in the context of the internet.
	When sending e-mails the parties involved can be sure that the e-mail is
	not modified and is the original message from the source claiming to have
	sent it.

3. What are the assumptions of the protocol in slide 6?
	That each of A and B has each other's public keys.

4. What are the goals of the protocol in slide 6?
	Each party can use the keys securely and talk to each other securely.

5. Are the goals of the protocol in slide 6 satisfied? Explain.
	No. A and B's transmission of the message is flawed and they may not be able to
	communicate securely.

6. How is the protocol in slide 6 flawed?
	The protocol is flawed because the keys needed to decrypt each message are given
	by the other message.

Lecture 58
1. Why is it important to know if a protocol includes unnecessary steps or
messages?
	So that we can be able to get the correct message back out.

2. Why is it important to know if a protocol encrypts items that could be sent
in the clear?
	To know if the protocol can be improved upon. This way we limit the information
	available to attackers.
	

Lecture 59
1. Why might it be difficult to answer what constitutes an attack on a cryptographic
protocol?
	Because there are too many factors to consider and one has to be sure of what
	the protocols guarantee. There is often protocols that are used for years before
	anybody notices a vulnerability.

2. Describe potential dangers of a replay attack.
	They can find a hole in the security and send the same messages later and
	is able to find a way to break the encryption due to a slip up or a bug
	found later.

3. Are there attacks where an attacker gains no secret information? Explain.
	No, at all times the attacker gains information as long as they know what to do 
	with it. For example even an unsuccessful attack gives information to the 
	the protocol.

4. What restrictions are imposed on the attacker?
	The attacker needs the keys to generate arbitrary messages. Other restrictions
	are hard to nail down specifically.

5. Why is it important that protocols are asynchronous?
	Because since the messages are intended to be secure, they cannot know anything
	other than what they are meant to know.

Lecture 60
1. Would the Needham-Schroeder protocol work without nonces?
	No.

2. For each step of the NS protocol, answer the two questions on slide 5.
	Step 1: Generate keys for A and B, here is a new nonce.
			That the nonce is fresh.
	Step 2:	Here are the keys encrypted and the nonce encrypted.
			That the part of B contains everything for B.
	Step 3: Here is the stuff from S that you need so we can communicate.
			The stuff I need is encrypted here. Only I have the key for this, it must
			have come from S.
	Step 4: Here is a Nonce encrypted using our key.
			Only B could have sent this.	
	Step 5: I have the key and can use it and got your message, here is the same nonce - 1
				to show that I can read it.
			Only A could have used it.

Lecture 61
1. As in slide 5, if A’s key were later changed, after having Kas compromised,
how could A still be impersonated?
	If the message was saved, since there is no nonce used in step 3, then cracking Kab
	would allow a third party, say C, to impersonate A by sending {Kab, A}Kbs to B.

2. Is it fair to ask the question of a key being broken?
	No.

3. How might you address these flaws if you were the protocol designer?
	Add a Nonce to step 3 so that we could determine validity, if the nonce was used
	previously then reject.

Lecture 62
1. What guarantees does Otway-Rees seem to provide to A and B?
	That the server will authenticate both A and B. A will always send a message to B. B can always verify A.

2. Are there guarantees that Needham-Schroeder provides that Otway-Rees
does not or vice versa?
	Otway-Reees provides the guarantee to authenticate independently via the server to circumvent attacks.

3. How could you fix the flawed protocol from slide 4?
	Add third party authentication, such as by an independent server.

Lecture 63
1. Why is the verification of protocols important?
	Protocols are the backbone of many technologies and as such having properly operating protocols
	would be optimal. By verifying protocols we reduce the risk of attacks.

2. What is a belief logic?
	Belief logic deals with what each participant in an exchange should be able to infer or know at
	each step in a protocol

3. A protocol is a program; where do you think beliefs come in?
	checking the model to make sure that it operates correctly and running through all the execution paths.

Lecture 64
1. What is a modal logic?
	formal logic that extends the proposition and predicate.

2. Explain the intuition behind the message meaning inference rule.
	If one party, say A, shares some key with another party, say B. Then if B recieves a message signed with
	that key, then A can infer that B sent it.

3. Explain the intuition behind the nonce verification inference rule.
	The nonce is randomly generated number, if A sends a message to B with a nonce, and B sends a message back with
	the same nonce, or the nonce -1 , then A can ifer that the message is fresh, since it is unlikely anybody else
	would generate the same nonce.

4. Explain the intuition behind the jurisdiction inference rule.
	If A believes that B is an expert in field X, and B says Y about X, then A will believe Y about X,
	because B is an expert and thus should know more about X than A.

5. What is idealization and why is it needed?
	idealization is when the interpretation of a protocol can differ based on the ideal needs at the time. It is important
	because one interpretation of the protocol may not fit all needs for the protocol.

Lecture 65
1. Why do you think plaintext is omitted in a BAN idealization?
	It is easy to mistake and forget.

2. Some idealized steps seem to refer to beliefs that will happen later in the
protocol. Why would that be?
	There may exist a need to verify the source or message before accepting the message.

3. One benefit of a BAN proof is that it exposes assumptions. Explain that.
	Exposes assumptions by using the beliefs that make up the protocol, thus the assumptions that are true are the only ones
	that remain.