Name: Andrew RubinettEID: ar37846CS Login: ar37846Email: arubinett@gmail.comLecture 661. A cryptographic algorithm that uses advanced cryptographic protocols and packages them in a way that is easy to use.2. He didn’t trust the government.3. Yes, it is unable to be accessed by various government agencies.4. Some companies don’t use freeware because there is no one to provide support or maintenance when it is needed.Lecture 671. A message is sent, along with a hash value of the message encrypted with the sender’s private key. The receiver decrypts the hash value of the message with the sender’s public key, and compares it to a computed hash value of the message sent.2. The sender generates a fixed-length session key and encrypts it with the receiver’s public key. This is sent, along with a message that is encrypted with the session key. The receiver then decrypts the session key with it’s own private key, and then uses the session key to decrypt the message.3. The authentication step is applied to a message, and then the confidentiality step is applied to the result of that.Lecture 681. Compression, email compatibility, and segmentation2. To save bandwidth3. Otherwise, the signature could depend on the encryption algorithm.4. It takes 3-byte octets and converts them into 4 bytes of ASCII characters to make sure no machine misinterprets an arbitrary sequence of binary characters as some other instruction.5. Sometimes, a message is longer than a mail program is able to handle, so the message needs to be broken down into smaller pieces.Lecture 691. Session keys, public keys, private keys, passphrase generated keys2. They have a high entropy and aren’t easy to guess3. The previous session key is encrypted with a newly generated string that is random based on some factors (key presses, mouse movement, etc.)/4. An odd number of the appropriate length is generated randomly and then tested to see if it is prime. If the number isn’t prime, then a new number is generated and the process is repeated until a prime number is generated.5. They are encrypted and decrypted with the hash value of a passphrase, which is necessary to prevent access to the private key to anyone who may get access to a user’s disk.Lecture 701. A key ID is generated based on the last 64 bits of the public key.2. Time stamps, private keys, the public keys they correspond to, the key ID, and a user ID.3. Time stamps, public keys, the key ID, and a user ID.4. The user must enter their passphrase, which is then hashed, and then used to decrypt the private key5. To judge how likely it is that a public key legitimately belongs to whoever claims to own them6. A revocation certificate is sent to all other users who may use that public key.Lecture 711. The consumer only attacks one specific user, while the producer attacks all users that need access to that server. Producer attacks are more prevalent.2. Syn flooding is when an attacker attempts to cause a server to open a number of connections with illegitimate addresses to occupy resources.3. They can lead to other forms of denial-of-service attacks.Lecture 721. Packet filtering is a good solution if there exists an efficient way to identify which packets are legitimate and which aren’t, but there isn’t really a good system for determining that.2. Intrusion detection assumes the attack is already in the system and attempts to identify it, while intrusion prevention attempts to prevent the attack from ever entering the system.3. Over-provisioning involves supplying the system with a high enough bandwidth that attacks aren’t effective. Packet filtering involves only accepting packets that are determined to be legitimate by some arbitrary method. Slow down processing involves slowing down the process for all requests. Speak-up involves asking for more packets when any potential threat is identified based on the premise that all attackers are already maxing out the number of packets they are sending.Lecture 731. False positives are when legitimate traffic gets flagged as malicious, and false negatives are when malicious traffic is allowed to proceed through the system. Which is worse depends on the system.2. A system is accurate if it identifies all malicious attacks, while it is precise if it doesn’t respond with false positives. 3. If an IDS system reports everything as an attack then it is accurate, and it is precise if it reports everything as legitimate, but neither of these systems is useful.4. The base rate fallacy states that if something happens very infrequently, it needs to be determined with very good accuracy. If an IDS system doesn’t identify infrequent attacks with good enough accuracy, the system won’t be helpful.Lecture 741. It would either generate a list of IP addresses to attack or perform a DDOS attack on the White House depending on the day.2. The list of IP addresses it generated was the same in every instance of the attack, so there were a limited number of machines getting infected. Also, the DDOS attack was recognized quickly and the attack was removed if a machine was rebooted.3. It resides in volatile memory, so it is erased when a machine turns off.4. The list of IP addresses was actually random, so the attack reached a much ore widespread group of machines.Lecture 751. It propagated itself to other machines and it made reference to the original attack in its code.2. In order to infect a high number of machines within the same system.3. It gave the attacker access to use infected machines in the future as it was allowed to run any arbitrary code on any infected machine.4. If machines remain unpatched, they remain vulnerable to attacks that can then be propagated further.5. People are very bad at patching their machines until something bad happens to them.Lecture 761. Most consumers don’t know enough about security to know what they need.2. There has to be some way to group functionality of the cryptography. There needs to be criteria to assess whether or not a product has a particular piece of functionality and a way to test if the product meets these criteria. The amount of functionality a product has should correspond to some easy-to-read rating for the consumer.3. They have a different use.4. Level 1 means any sort of cryptographic algorithm is used. Level 2 means you can tell when it has been broken in to. Level 3 means stronger countermeasures taken against attempted intrusion. Level 4 means complete protection that zeroes out the keys on attempted intrusion.Lecture 771. A common system for evaluating security systems.2. Multiple countries, including the US and most of the EU, use it.3. Countries may have differing security needs.4. A protection profile is a description of a class of security product that specifies what a certain type of product needs to do. A security target tests against a specific product that can be evaluated against the protection profiles.Lecture 781. A protection profile is used to determine whether or not a specific type of product can satisfy the security goals needed.2. To create a systematic way to check validity of a security product.3. To determine if a product satisfies all the requirements.Lecture 791. To evaluate how secure a specific system or product is as compared to the security goals.2. A security target evaluation is very specific to one product, whereas a protection profile is for a much more general class of product.Lecture 801. Security levels that are used in evaluating security products.2. Independent testing labs certified by the government3. Each country may have specific things it says needs to be true to be labeled as a high enough EAL.4. No, they aren’t certified to evaluate a product5. It is important to know the intent of whoever created the product, and not simply what can be drawn from the code.