Name: Taylor Gregston
EID: teg282
CS Login: teg282
Email: gregstont@gmail.com

Lecture 66:
 1. It is an email encryption system that is extremely strong and easy to use for all.
 2. Distrust of the government.  He believed everyone had a right to privacy.
 3. Yes. To our knowledge it can't practically be broken by any government.
 4. Alot of companies like to have support which is not offered with freeware in case they have problems.

Lecture 67:
 1. The sender encypts the hash of the message with his private key, which only the sender has. Is verified with S public key.
 2. The sender generates a key for symmetric encryption for the message and signs it with the recievers public key so the reciever can see the key and decrpty the message.
 3. These to aspects are combined which naturally provides both.

Lecture 68:
 1. Compression, email compatibility and segmentation.
 2. To save bandwidth because its being sent over internet.
 3. You don't want the signature to depend on the compression algorithm.
 4. It is a transformation that takes three octets and turns it into ASCII characters which can be displayed.
 5. Some mailers have a limit on size of message, so breaks it into pieces.

Lecture 69:
 1. Session, public, private, passphrase-based.
 2. It needs to be random so it can't be guessed.
 3. It is dependent on user movements and mouse movements with also olders keys. This is done to increase entropy.
 4. A random n-bit number is generated and then checked if it is prime, and if not keep trying to guess. Usually 70 tries for 200 bits.
 5. They are protected by the user passphrase. If someone else has access to your data and it wasnt encrypted they could get your private key.

Lecture 70:
 1. PGP uses the least significant 64 bits of the key as the ID which is most likely unique.
 2. A list of private keys owned by the user. Also holds public keys.
 3. The public keys used for past communication.
 4. It uses the Key ID field as an index and asks the user for his passphrase before giving him the key.
 5. It indicates the trustworthyness through a chain of certificates.
 6. The owner issues a signed key revocation certificate. Recipients are advised not to use that key.

Lecture 71:
 1. Consumer: attacker gets in between a client and service and disrupts the communication. Producer: the attacker produces requests to overwhelm the server.
 2. The attacker sends TCP syn with and invalid address and the server witholds resources awaiting a response, that it will never get.
 3. They would either increase resources, decrease availability or be difficult to determine accurately.

Lecture 72:
 1. It can determine which packets are bad and completely block the suspecting packets.
 2. IDS: analyzes traffic patterns and react, IDS reacts after the attack has begun  IPS: attempts to prevent intrusions by more aggressively blocking attempted attacks assuming it can be identified.
 3. Over-provisioning: more servers but expensive. Filtering attack packets: distinguish the attack packets from regular packets.  Slow down processing: disadvatages all requests. Speak up: request additional traffic from all requestors.

Lecture 73:
 1. false negative is when a genuine attack is not detected.  False positive is harmless behavior that is deemed as attack. Depends on scenario (how sensitive is data).
 2. Accurate: detects all genuine attacks. Precise: never generates false positives.
 3. You could either allow all traffic or block all traffic.  The key is finding the sweet spot.
 4. Most likely the attacks are rare, and most things that are deemed attacks are most likely false positives.

Lecture 74:
 1. It was a worm that would launch a DoS attack to whitehouse.gov.
 2. The worm spread slowly because the random generator use to make the attack lists used a static seed so everyone made the same list.
 3. It means the worm resides in memory and goes away when the computer is reboot.
 4. Random seed so more people got infected more quickly.

Lecture 75:
 1. They both exploited the same vulnerability in MS IIS webservers.
 2. Probably to set up a botnet to be used for DoS attacks. It would prefer to attack computers in general network, which were likely to also be vulnerable.
 3. It installed a mechanism for roots access to a machine, so anything could have been done.
 4. Unpatched machines remain vulnerable to future attacks.
 5. It means that as a whole people are slow to patching their machines.

Lecture 76:
 1. People need to know who to trust.
 2. A set of requiremnts defining the functionality, a set of assureance requirments, a methodology, and a measure of the evaluation result.
 3. The nature of cryptography is sensitive and there are not many experts.  If there is a flaw it would have great consequences.
 4. 1: basic security, level 2: improved physical security, level 3: strong tamper-resitant, level 4: complete envelope of protection (epoxy shield).

Lecture 77:
 1. It is a systems evaluation criteria that is a standard that 26 countries use.
 2. It is common between all coutries that use it.
 3. Countries may trust themselves more than foreign products if there is sensitive data.
 4. Security target is the policy that needs to be enforced.  Protection profiles is a document that describes a policy for a class of systems.

Lecture 78:
 1. It is trying to protect people from cheating the trash billing system.
 2. Data authentication, internal transfer integrity protection, stored data integrity.
 3. It is a mapping from threats to security objectives.

Lecture 79:
 1. It's goal is to manage user access priviledges and not allow misuse or untrusted users and reliable timestamps.
 2. The protection profile evaluation is more common and standard because it is from a given document that others use.  Security target is more abstract.

Lecture 80:
 1. They are evaluation levels that represent the level of security the product offers.
 2. From commercial labortories that are certified.  It means the government of that country has certified the product.
 3. Countries may not trust each others software from having backdoors or exploits.  The data a high EAL product would be around is going to be sensitive.
 4. No because there needs to be a chain of trust. Otherwise EAL would have no significance.
 5. If you model from the code you will miss the same holes or exploits that the programmer missed.  You need a model indpendent from the code.










