Name:Trevor Thackston
EID:ttt733
CS Login:ttt733
Email:trevor.thackston@gmail.com

Lecture 53
1. So it cannot be detached and reused for another message
2. To keep it tamperproof
3. That M comes from S

Lecture 54
1. Must deal with people we've never met and therefore can't trust on their own merit, authorities vouch for those people
2. To bind the certificate to Y with official backing so X can "vouch for" Y
3. In order to verify the authenticity of X to Y
4. Could not be used to verify X's identity

Lecture 55
1. A known third party verifies another party
2. To ensure that it stays up-to-date
3. The certificate wouldn't be valid

Lecture 56
1. Certification
2. The protocol would no longer work
3. The two parties don't already share a key
4. XOR messages 2 and 3 then the result with message 1
5. XOR messages 3 and 2
6. XOR messages 1 and 2
7. Many methods of attack

Lecture 57
1. They establish proper communication between users
2. They establish security of that communication
3. B knows the message is coming from A and to respond, A knows Kb and B knows Ka
4. Transmit the messages so only A and B can read them
5. Yes, the messages are transmitted
6. A shouldn't know Kb, B shouldn't know Ka

Lecture 58
1. The simpler the protocol can be made the easier it is to identify methods of attack
2. Depending on the encryption method, encrypting too much data could reveal information about other data

Lecture 59
1. Depends upon the protocol
2. Attacker can act like a verified user
3. Yes, can get an encrypted message and reuse it without knowing its exact contents
4. Assume hacker can't easily break encryption
5. Parties don't know anything about the protool except what it's received and sent, and there are multiple parties interacting

Lecture 60
1. No
2.
	1. Specifies A as sender and B as target, S can know that A wants to authenticate itself to B
	2. S tells A how to send the message to B, A knows the message came from S
	3. A sends B the verification, B knows the message is fresh and verified by S
	4. B verifies that it's received the authentication, A knows B trusts A's authentication
	5. A tells B that the message it received from B was fresh, B knows A's authentication is trustworthy

Lecture 61
1. Hacker could use Kas to get a fresh key
2. Sort of, keys could just be too weak
3. More authentication measures on message senders

Lecture 62
1. The message comes from A, is received by B, and is fresh
2. N-S lets B know that the message isn't a replay of an older one
3. Add another verification step before B sends a message back so it knows it's sending a message to A, not C

Lecture 63
1. Prevent spies from interfering with the protocol
2. Allows reasoning about what principles within the protocol should be able to know based on the messages they see.
3. Users believe that they know certain information and that the protocol is trustworthy

Lecture 64
1. Reasoning based on qualifying statements
2. If B's key is involved then X must have come from B
3. If B said it and it is recent then B likely still thinks it
4. B is in a better position than A to know about the trustworthyness of X
5. Turns a message into its intended function, allows reasoning based on BAN logic

Lecture 65
1. It can be forged
2. They are inevitable parts of the protocol so they can be counted on to happen
3. If the protocol assumes users know/believe certain things it is not certain of, it may not be a proper protocol
