Lecture 1
1. The term security os relevant in many aspects of my everyday life. We use the term to mean security of digital 
information like login and password information. Security can refer to a security systems for homes so its harder
to break in and steal. Can also be used to refer to keeping people safe such as police.

2. They all have in common the theme of keeping something safe from something else.

3. I have been a victim when my bank had a exploitable web service aka heartbleed

4. Not likely. Im running Ubuntu and generally very few viruses exists for *nix systems

5. Nothing in particular. I dont use it but to program and access programming resources

6. Probably. I only use it for very specific stuff

7. I think its not as bad as they like to say it is. The DoD system is so complex that it would take a lot more than
just one good exploit to really take such a big effect. They like to use system security levels to facilitate who can do what.
They would have to go through an immense amount of work and exploits to do that. Im not saying you cant find exploits
however i think to take that level of effect it would require a lot.

8. The importance is that learning about computer security allows you to make yourself less susceptible to being
a victim

Lecture 2
1. Security is hard because its not only outsiders who can be malicious but those within the system as well.
If an attacker can make use of an unknowing insider through social engineering all the measures in the world
cant stop them

2. I dont think so. Zero days make that particularly hard because something could go wrong and you would never know
because you didnt know that exploit ever existed

3. The asymmetry is that the defender has to defend everything, where an attacker can focus on one section of a 
system and find exploits

4. I agree. I think that as soon as you are connected to a network in which other people have a gateway to access
your computer then you have effectively opened yourself up to an infinite number of possible attacks from any which direction

5. What the statement is saying is that the more security you try to implement you at the same time are also possibly
restricting yourself from implementing something you want because it may possibly make your system more vulnerable

Lecture 3
1. Risk is simply the possibility that a malicious threat will damage or compromise the system by making use
of a particular exploit

2. I agree. You cant remove every possible exploit in a system. More code introduces more potential attack vectors.

3. A risk you accept is making a system accessible through a network because making a system network accessible opens up attack vectors but makes it much less useful.
 A risk you avoid is allowing employees to take work computers home. A risk you mitigate is keeping login 
and password information seperate so that if one is compromised the other is not. A risk
you transfer is insurance. You know that you could be injured or maybe have stolen property so having
insurance will give you some feeling of security that things will get fixed.

4. 