Name: Ruben Baeza
EID: rb27735
CS Login: rb27735
Email: ruben.baeza@utexas.edu
DATE: 6/12/14


CS361 Questions: Week 1


Lecture 1

1. What uses of the term “security” are relevant to your everyday life?
	The use of security in the fields of protecting people, their information
	and the country.
	
2. What do these have in common?
	They all involve the safeguarding of information and most deal with technology
	directly or indirectly.

3. Have you been a victim of lax security?
	Yes, when Sony had their PlayStation servers hacked my credit card information
	was compromised.

4. What is the likelihood that your laptop is infected? How did you decide?
	Not very likely since I use a Linux operating system protected by anti-virus
	software and the threat to Linux is low.
	
5. What security measures do you employ on your laptop?
	Anti-virus software and the use of a firewall, not to mention the inherent security
	in using Linux based operating systems.
	
6. Do you think they are probably effective?
	Effective enough to minimize the risk to an acceptable rate without much compromisation
	on usability.
	
7. Consider the quote from the FBI official on slide 10. Do you think it overstates
the case? Justify your answer.
	No, since most information is now digital a compromised system could very well
	be a danger to our existence as a country since it could leak national security
	information that could compromise our defences. 

8. What is the importance in learning about computer security?
	As a student, the importance in learning about computer security lies in 
	enhancing personal, information, and job security.


	
Lecture 2

1. Consider the five reasons given why security is hard. Can you think of other
factors?
	Technology is constantly evolving meaning, that as a result, so is the
	technology and exploits that attackers use.

2. Is there a systematic way to enumerate the “bad things” that might happen
to a program? Why or why not?
	No, because there are too many factors at play including the the 
	unpredictable variables that are humans. Also, since technology is
	evolving, the number of "bad things" that could happen also grow and
	get reintroduced in newer versions. This is much like trying to enumerate 
	the possible illnesses that might befall yourself.

3. Explain the asymmetry between the defender and attacker in security.
	The attacker needs to only look for one "hole" in the security and exploit it.
	The defender however, needs to try and account for all possible "holes",
	find how they might be exploited, and figure out a way to safeguard against
	such attacks.


4. Examine the quotes from Morris and Chang. Do you agree? Why or why
not?
	Yes, because no matter how off the grid you may be, the fact that you 
	use a computer creates the possibility that it could be infected by
	something. Take for example the case of malware created for TVs that cropped up
	a few months ago.

5. Explain the statement on slide 8 that a tradeoff is typically required.
	Typically, one must sacrifice a portion of security to be able to accomplish
	anything on a computer. This fact is inherent in technology because nothing
	is 100% secure and the more we wish to do with technology, the more open we
	are to vulnerabilities.


Lecture 3

1. Define “risk”?
	The probability that something might be taken advantage of to 
	cause some sort of harm

2. Do you agree that software security is about managing risk?
	Yes, because of the tradeoff mentioned in lecture 2. There will always be
	risk involved in using technology, the question is how much risk are we willing
	to put up with.

3. Name and explain a risk you accept, one you avoid, one you mitigate, and
one you transfer?
	I accept that by using the internet the information I send over it might be
		viewed by someone else.
	I avoid the use of torrents because of the possible risk of downloading an 
		infected file.
	I mitigate the risk of my credit cards, debit cards, and bank information being
		compromised by using a services like PayPal.
	I transfer the risk losing all my possessions due to burglary or fire to an
		insurance company by buying a renter's insurance policy.

4. Evaluate annualized loss expectancy as a risk management tool.
	ALE seems like an effective tool for risk management as it tells you where the
	highest risk is and the potential cost to you, or your business. Through the use
	of ALE one can find major security flaws and work to address them.

5. List some factors relevant to rational risk assessment.
	Possibility for human error, those listed in the lecture slides: technical,
	economic, and psychological factors.


Lecture 4

1. Explain the key distinction between the lists on slides 2 and 3.
	The list on slide 3 mainly lists ways of protecting or ensuring the items
	on the list on slide 2. In other words, slide 2 lists concepts of security,
	while slide 3 lists mechanisms for securing those concepts.

2. Consider your use of computing in your personal life. Which is most important:
confidentiality, integrity, availability? Justify your answer.
	Confidentiality, since I use the internet for making various purchases it is
	important to minimize the number of people who have access to my billing
	information as well as my purchases.

3. What does it mean “to group and categorize data”?
	In this context it means to assign a level of importance to some data 
	based on the data's sensitivity. So we would apply the same security
	protocols to highly sensitive data, while we would use less strict protocols
	for data that isn't damaging.	

4. Why might authorizations change over time?
	For various reasons including, but not limited to, change of employment status,
	promotions/demotions, approved/revoked security clearance, change of data 
	sensitivity.

5. Some of the availability questions seem to relate more to reliability than to
security. How are the two related?
	In order for a system to be secure it must be reliable. If a system is
	not reliable then it might not be secure since information may be leaked or lost.

6. In what contexts would authentication and non-repudiation be considered
important?
	These may be important in a business setting where one may be responsible for
	delivering information that is time-sensitive. Authentication to ensure that the
	correct parties are sending and receiving the information, and non-repudiation to
	ensure that the receiver and sender of the message are logged.


Lecture 5

1. Describe a possible metapolicy for a cell phone network? A military database?
	Cell phone network: Only the intended recipients and senders should be able to 
		see any information sent over the network. No 3rd party access to any
		information should be allowed including any changes to information. The
		network should be constantly available to all users.
	
	Military database:
		Only approved personnel should have access to database and only to
		information they are approved to access. Outside access, or access by
		unauthorized users, should not occur except with strict authentication
		and approved clearance. The database should be available at all times
		except when it is deemed to be compromised and should be dropped to limited
		access until issues are resolved.


2. Why do you need a policy if you have a metapolicy?
	A policy is a means of implementing the metapolicy. In other words, the
	metapolicy works as a guide for the policy, while the policy is the actual
	nuts and bolts that protect the system.


3. Give three possible rules within a policy concerning students’ academic
records.
	Authentication is necessary for any access to academic records.
	A student should only be able to view his/her academic record.
	Changes to academic records should only be made by administrative personnel.

4. Could stakeholders’ interest conflict in a policy? Give an example.
	Yes, bank clients might want unlimited access to all of their money in a bank,
	while bank shareholders might want to keep as much money in the bank as 
	possible at all times.

5. For the example given involving student SSNs, state the likely metapolicy.
	Access to files containing SSNs is restricted to authorized users only.
	Changes to files containing SSNs is reserved to authorized users only.
	Access to the secure storage device for SSNs is limited to within the network
	only.


6. Explain the statement: ”If you don’t understand the metapolicy, it becomes
difficult to justify and evaluate the policy.”
	Since the metapolicy is sort of a guide to what the policy should do, without
	understanding the metapolicy it can become difficult to judge whether the policy
	is acting accordingly or what it is that the policy is supposed to do. Much
	like how comments in code allow us to determine what was being done and why
	it was done that way.


Lecture 6

1. Why is military security mainly about confidentiality? Are there also aspects
of integrity and availability?
	Because there are various degrees of data sensitivity and access to it 
	only by authorized individuals is most important. There are also aspects of
	integrity and availablity such as only authorized personnel are allowed to
	modify the data.

2. Describe the major threat in our MLS thought experiment.
	Keeping personnel not authorized to view some data but authorized to 
	view other data from viewing the data they aren't allowed to view.	

3. Why do you think the proviso is there?
	Because the main threat stems from confidentiality and including the other
	aspects of security can overcomplicate things.

4. Explain the form of the labels we’re using.
	The labels define the sensitivity of the data and the groups that have
	access to the data.

5. Why do you suppose we’re not concerned with how the labels get there?
	Because of the proviso, this would fall under Integrity.

6. Rank the facts listed on slide 6 by sensitivity.
	Highest sensitivity to lowest:
		2) The Normandy invasion is scheduled for June 6.
		6) The British have broken the German Enigma codes.
		4) Col. Jones just got a raise, 5) Col. Smith didn't get a raise
		1) The base softball team has a game tomorrow at 3pm.
		3) the cafeteria is serving chopped beef on toast today.

7. Invent labels for documents containing each of those facts.
	{ Top Secret {Army, Air Force, Navy, President, SoD, DoD}}
	{ Secret {Crypto}}
	{ Confidential {HR}}
	{Unclassified {Personnel}}
	{Unclassified {Personnel}}

8. Justify the rules for “mixed” documents.
	Since a document contains secret information and unclassified information
	it makes sense to classify it as secret since we wouldn't want the secret
	information to be leaked, therefore we should always classify a document
	by its highest level.
	Using both categories makes sense since it would be impractical to limit the
	parts of a document people from one category can see based on which category
	they belong to.


Lecture 7

1. Document labels are stamped on the outside. How are “labels” affixed to
humans?
	Digitally, such as through ID cards, or by rank.

2. Explain the difference in semantics of labels for documents and labels for
humans.
	Labels for documents indicate the level of the information they contain, for 
	humans the labels indicate the highest level of the information they have access
	to.

3. In the context of computers what do you think are the analogues of documents?
Of humans?
	Files. 
	Users.

4. Explain why the Principle of Least Privilege makes sense.
	Because giving too many privileges to someone without a need for them can
	be dangerous and giving too little privileges could impede their ability
	to conduct their job accordingly.

5. For each of the pairs of labels on slide 6, explain why the answers in the
third column do or do not make sense.
	1) Makes sense because they are cleared to view information at a higher
		security level in the same category so they should be cleared to view
		information in lower security levels.
	2) Makes sense since the highest they are cleared to access is secret, and Top
		Secret supersedes Secret.
	3) Makes sense since the person has access to secret level and unclassified is
		lowest level and the data is not restricted to any particular category.


Lecture 8:

1. Why do you think we introduced the vocabulary terms: objects, subjects,
actions?
	So we could have a clear definition of common terms to identify who is
	doing what, and what is occurring within the system.

2. Prove that dominates is a partial order (reflexive, transitive, antisymmetric).
	There can be a label that is (H, {A, B}) and another that is (L, {A, B}), and (L, {A,B})
	call them A, B and C, respectively. This shows that A dominates B and B dominates
	C. Then by transitivity we can see that A dominates C, but it is not symmetric so
	B does not dominate A.

3. Show that dominates is not a total order.
	Using the same A as above, but B defined as (L, {C}). We can see that it is not
	total order because neither A dominates B, nor B dominates A.


4. What would have to be true for two labels to dominate each other?
	They would have to be the same.

5. State informally what the the Simple Security property says.
	It is saying that a subject, A, with a security level and category only dominates
	another subject, B, with a lower or equal security level whose category is contained
	in A's.

6. Explain why it’s “only if” and not “if and only if.”
	"if and only if" would mean that they both imply each other which would only
	be the case when they are equal and this isn't always the case.


Lecture 9

1. Why isn’t Simple Security enough to ensure confidentiality?
	Simple Security does not guard against WRITE actions, only READ actions, also
	it does not stop those authorized to perform READs from writing that data
	into other places.

2. Why do we need constraints on write access?
	In order to stop writes such as those mentioned above.

3. What is it about computers, as opposed to human beings, that makes that
particularly important?
	Computers are susceptible to being used by unauthorized users.

4. State informally what the *-Property says.
	The *-Property says that one can only write to places that have a higher, or
	equal to, security level than the one trying to write.

5. What must be true for a subject to have both read and write access to an
object?
	The security levels must be the same.

6. How could we deal with the problem that the General (top secret) can’t send
orders to the private (Unclassified)?
	Granting specific permissions or multiple security labels.

7. Isn’t it a problem that a corporal can overwrite the war plan? Suggest how
we might deal with that.
	Yes, but as mentioned in the slides this is an Integrity problem. We may
	be able to restrict writes to certain high level security documents/files to
	only be written to by those with the same clearance necessary to read them.


Lecture 10:

1. Evaluate changing a subject’s level (up or down) in light of weak tranquility.
	This seems to be a secure way of handling things since it unlikely that
	objects and subjects will retain the same clearance throughout the system's life.

2. Why not just use strong tranquility all the time?
	It is unrealistic to assume that subjects, objects, or security levels will never
	need to be changed.

3. Explain why lowering the level of an object may be dangerous.
	It may be dangerous because it could allow for unwanted access to a document that
	was not reviewed properly before the modification.

4. Explain what conditions must hold for a downgrade (lowering object level)
to be secure.
	The object must not contain any data that is of the current security level or 
	higher. 
	All users that have access to the new security level should be cleared for reading
	the material in the object. 
	It must not violate any part of the security policy, i.e. *-propery, simple 
	security.


Lecture 11:

1. Suppose you wanted to build a (library) system in which all subjects had
read access to all files, but write access to none of them. What levels could
you give to subjects and objects?
	Subjects would be given a high security level and objects would be given
	a low security level. This would not allow WRITEs but allow READs since
	we have a WRITE up, READ down system.

2. Why wouldn’t you usually build an access control matrix for a BLP system?
	It is too large for actual systems.


Lecture 12

1. Suppose you had hierarchical levels L, H with L < H, but only had one
category A. Draw the lattice. (Use your keyboard and editor to draw it; it
doesn’t have to be fancy.)
	 -->(H{A}) <--
	|			  |
	|			  |
	|			(H{})<------
	|						|
	 ---(L{A})<--			|
				 |			|
				 |			|
				  --(L{})---

2. Given any two labels in a BLP system, what is the algorithm for finding
their LUB and GLB?
	DFS stopping when they share a point.


3. Explain why upward flow in the lattice really is the metapolicy for BLP.
	Because information can only flow upwards which holds the write up concept.


Lecture 13

1. Explain how the BLP rules are supposed to enforce the metapolicy in the
example on slide 1.
	Information can only flow from L to H and thus in enforces the metapolicy since
	L cannot read H but can write to H, and H can read L but not write to it.

2. Argue that the READ and WRITE operations given satisfy BLP.
	The flow of information only flows to higher level objects, thus it forms a 
	lattice with flow of information moving upward and is a BLP. 

3. Argue that the CREATE and DESTROY operations given satisfy BLP.
	The subjects can only create objects at their level but can only destroy objects
	at their level or above. This ensures that there is no writes moving down only
	at the current level or above.

4. What has to be true for the covert channel on slide 5 to work?
	The lower level subject has to perform the same operations regardless of what
	the higher level subject does or has done.

5. Why is the DESTROY statement there?
	So we can continue to transmit information and can simply place the code inside
	a loop.

6. Are the contents of any files different in the two paths?
	It does not matter and we do not know.

7. Why does SL do the same thing in both cases? Must it?
	Yes it must, this is to ensure that we are actually communicating
	information across the security levels.

8. Why does SH do different things? Must it?
	No, there is no reason behind it doing different things, it is just the way that
	it can get a bit across security levels.

9. Justify the statement on slide 7 that begins: “If SL ever sees...”
	Since SH cannot transmit information to SL directly, then if we produce the same
	procedures for SL but observe that we get different results depending on what SH
	does then we can use it to send information from SH to SL by choosing a definition
	for the various results we receive from the different actions of SH.


Lecture 14

1. Explain why “two human users talking over coffee is not a covert channel.”
	It is not within the system and the resources used to communicate were
	designed for that.

2. Is the following a covert channel? Why or why not?
Send 0 | Send 1
------------------------------------------
Write (SH, F0, 0) | Write (SH, F0, 1)
Read (SL, F0) | Read (SL, F0)

	No, because either the READs or WRITEs will not work since the subjects are of 
	different security levels. If SH can WRITE to F0, then SL cannot read from it, and
	if SL  can READ from F0 then SH cannot WRITE to it.

3. Where does the bit of information transmitted “reside” in Covert Channel
#1?
	The existence of the object, so the access denied will send a bit.

4. In Covert Channel #2?
	In the time that each process uses the CPU for.

5. In Covert Channel #3?
	In the time that it takes for q to reach each cylinder.

6. In Covert Channel #4?
	Whether h is even.

7. Why might a termination channel have low bandwidth?
	The process terminating and restarting can be expensive time-wise.

8. What would have to be true to implement a power channel?
	Access to reading the energy used.

9. For what sort of devices might power channels arise?
	devices that are either off or working.


Lecture 15

1. Explain why covert channels, while appearing to have such a low bandwidth,
can potentially be very serious threats.
	Because processors can push out thousands of bits per second, and since it is
	only one bit the processors will not be noticeably slower.

2. Why would it be infeasible to eliminate every potential covert channel?
	There are too many possibilities for covert channels and finding them all is
	next to impossible, as is eliminating all that are found as some could cripple
	the usability of the system.

3. If detected, how could one respond appropriately to a covert channel?
	We can either eliminate the channel, introduce noise to channel to try and
	slow it down, or can monitor the channel for signs of exploitation.

4. Describe a scenario in which a covert storage channel exists.
	Where the sender can access the data and be able to modify some attribute of the data.
	The receiver can read the data.
	And there is a way to start the sending process and receiving process and tracking
	the information sent over them.

5. Describe how this covert storage channel can be utilized by the sender and
receiver.
	They can assign a definition to each value of the attribute. For example, if the
	data exists it is a 1, if it doesn't a 0. Then the sender can either create the
	file, or not. The reader can then try to read the data. If it is successful then
	it logs a 1, otherwise a 0. The writer then deletes the data and starts the process
	over.



Lecture 16

1. Why wouldn’t the “create” operation have an R in the SRMM for the “file
existence” attribute?
	It does not directly tell us whether the file already existed or not.

2. Why does an R and M in the same row of an SRMM table indicate a potential
channel?
	Because a resource is shared between subjects and one is able to modify some
	attribute of the resource, while the other is able to read the attribute.
	This could potentially be used for a channel as described in Lecture 15 question 
	5.

3. If an R and M are in the same column of an SRMM table, does this also
indicate a potential covert channel? Why or why not?
	No, because this references different attributes that are only accessed by the same
	subject, so information transmission would be pointless. It would be like
	you sending encrypted messages to yourself.

4. Why would anyone want to go through the trouble to create an SRMM
table?
	To identify potential covert channels in a system and be able to address them.