CS361 Questions: Week 5
Lecture 66
1. What is PGP?
A strong encryption utilization that is accessable to everyone.
2. What motivated Phil Zimmerman to develop it?
He had a strong distrust of the government and believed everyone has a right to privacy.
3. Does PGP provide effective security?
Yes, two incidents from 2003 and 2006 indicate that PGP was nearly impossible to decode.
4. If PGP is freeware, why would anyone bother to purchase support?
To ensure that they aren't downloading a modified version of PGP with backdoors.
Lecture 67
1. Explain the PGP authentication protocol.
S->R : {h(M)}ks-1, M
2. Explain the PGP confidentiality protocol.
S -> R: {K}kr, {M}K
3. How do you get both authentication and confidentiality?
Apply authentication step to the original message, and apply confidentiality step to the resulting message.
Lecture 68
1. Besides authentication and confidentiality, what other “services” does PGP
provide?
Compression, Email compatibility, Segmentation
2. Why is compression needed?
Encryption after compression strengthens the encryption
3. Why sign a message and then compress, rather than the other way around?
You don't want your signature to depend on the compression algorithm
4. Explain radix-64 conversion and why it’s needed?
It maps groups of 3 octets into 4 ASCII characters. This prevents the message from accidentally calling control functions.
5. Why is PGP segmentation needed?
Email systems often restrict message length
Lecture 69
1. What are the four kinds of keys used by PGP?
Session, Public, Private, Passphrase-based
2. What special properties are needed of session keys?
Used once and generated for each new message.
3. How are session keys generated?
The encryption algorithm makes a n-bit key from the previous session key and n/2-bit blocks generated by the user's keystrokes, includitng timing.
4. Assuming RSA is used for PGP asymmetric encryption, how are the keys
generated?
Keys of a sufficient size are generated randomly and tested for primality until one is found.
5. How are the private keys protected? Why is this necessary?
They are protected by a user-supplied passphrase. This is easy for the user to remember and reuse, but when hashed and encrypted is very hard to break.
CS361 Questions: Week 5
2
Lecture 70
1. If a user has multiple private/public key pairs, how does he know which was
used when he receives an encrypted message?
Create a key ring that maps the least significant 64 bits to the actual key.
2. What’s on a user’s private key ring?
Timestamp, Key ID, Public key, Private key, User ID
3. What’s on a user’s public key ring?
Timestamp, Key ID, Public Key, User ID
4. What are the steps in retrieving a private key from the key ring?
Retrieve the encrypted private key using the Key ID field as an index, prompt the user for the passphrase to decrypt, recover the session key and decrypt the message
5. What is the key legitimacy field for?
Indicates the extent to which PGP trusts that the key is a valid public key for this user
6. How is a key revoked?
The owner issues a signed key revocation certificate.
Lecture 71
1. Explain the difference between the consumer and producer problems. Which
is more prevalent?
Consumer problem gets in between the consumer and its target to disrupt information flow. Producer problem overwhelms the server so it cannot respond to incoming requests.
2. Explain syn flooding.
An attacker starts a protocol but does not finish and the server spends resources waiting for the response.
3. Why are the first three solutions to syn flooding not ideal?
Increasing queue size could consume considerable resources. Shorten time-out could potentially deny legitimate slow clients. Filter packets might be hard to determine.
Lecture 72
1. Why does packet filtering work very well to prevent attacks?
If done at the right depth, it can deny malicious packets from clogging the server.
2. What are the differences between intrusion detection and intrusion preven-
tion systems?
IDS works after the attack begins, and IPS works to prevent the attack from starting.
3. Explain the four different solutions mentioned to DDoS attacks.
Over-provisioning - have too many servers to be overwhelmed. Filtering - distinguish attack packets from regular packets. Slow down processing - disadvantages all requests, but attackers will feel it more. Speak-up - request additional traffic from all requestors.
Lecture 73
1. Explain false positive and false negatives. Which is worse?
False positive is a harmless behavior classified as an attack, Flase negative is an attack classified as a harmless behavior.
2. Explain what “accurate” and “precise” mean in the IDS context.
Accurate means it can catch all attacks, and precise means it allows all legitimate traffic.
3. Explain the statement: “It’s easy to build an IDS that is either accurate or
precise?
You can have a system that blocks all or none of the traffic.
4. What is the base rate fallacy? Why is it relevant to an IDS?
Even with a relatively high detection rate, you can still have a large ammount of misinformation coming from your system.
Lecture 74
1. What did Code Red version 1 attempt to do?
Launch a DoS attack on www1.whitehouse.gov
2. Why was Code Red version 1 ineffective?
It used a static seed on its IP generator, causing it to reinfect the same list of machines. The IP address for www1.whitehouse.gov was changed so the attack failed. Also the worm was memory resident so it was cleared by rebooting the machine.
3. What does it mean to say that a worm is “memory resident”? What are the
implications.
It resides in memory. It's just a running process that cannot execute itself.
4. Why was Code Red version 2 much more effective than version 1?
It used a random seed in its IP generator
Lecture 75
1. How was Code Red II related to Code Red (versions 1 and 2)?
It attacks a buffer-overflow vunerability
2. Why do you suppose Code Red II incorporated its elaborate propogation
scheme?
To increase the probability of finding vunerable machines
3. What did Code Red II attempt to do?
Install a backdoor to be later used in future attacks.
4. Comment on the implications of a large population of unpatched machines.
They are more vunerable to attacks that exploit weaknesses that are already well documented.
5. Comment on the report from Verizon cited on slide 6. What are the lessons
of their study?
That 90% of security breaches could have been stopped by staying up to date on system patches.
Lecture 76
1. Why is a certification regime for secure products necessary and useful?
Because most customers don't have the expertise to evaluate their security needs.
2. Explain the components of an evaluation standard.
A set of requirements defining security functionality, a set of assurance requirements needed for establishing the functional requirements, a methodology for determining that the functional requirements are met, and a measure of the evaluation result indicating the trustworthiness of the evaluated system.
3. Why would crypto devices have a separate evaluation mechanism?
You usually encrypt things that contain very sensitive information.
4. Explain the four levels of certification for crypto devices.
1 - basic security; at least one approved algorithm or function. 2- improved physical security, tamper-evident packaging. 3- strong tamper-resistance and countermeasures. 4- complete envelope of protection including immediate zeroing of keys upon tampering.
Lecture 77
1. What is the Common Criteria?
A secure systems evaluation criteria adopted by 26 countries.
2. What’s “common” about it?
Adopted by 26 countries
3. Why would there be any need for “National Schemes”?
In case one country starts certifying illegitimate products.
4. Explain the difference between a protection profile and a security target.
A PP is a family of products in terms of threats, environmental issues and assumptions, security objectives, and requirements of the CC. A ST is a document thtat contains the security requirements of a product to be evaluated, and specifies the measures offered by the product to meet those requirements.
Lecture 78
1. Explain the overall goal of the protection profile as exemplified by the WBIS
example.
To keep track of how much garbage was collected to send an appropriate bill
2. What is the purpose of the various parts of the protection profile (as exem-
plified in the WBIS example)?
To outline the assets, the threats, and security policies
3. What is the purpose of the matrix on slide 7?
To demonstrate that every threat is matched by a seurity mesure
Lecture 79
1. Explain the overall goal of the security target evaluation as exemplified by
the Sun Identity Manager example.
Managing user access privilieges stored in directory services.
2. How do you think that a security target evaluation differs from a protection
profile evaluation?
It does not attempt to define threats and assets.
Lecture 80
1. What are the EALs and what are they used for?
Evaluation assurance levels are used to categorize different ammounts of security provided by a product.
2. Who performs the Common Criteria evaluations?
NIST in the U.S.
3. Speculate why the higher EALs are not necessarily mutually recognized by
various countries.
There might be suspicion of "overmarketing"
4. Can vendors certify their own products? Why or why not?
No, that is a conflict of interest
5. If you’re performing a formal evaluation, why is it probably bad to reverse
engineer the model from the code?
Because you might miss the same cases that the original code did
Well done!
