Lecture 341. You may not have a perfect encoding but you can find a better encoding.2. By increasing the redundancy in a noisy channel, you higher the chances of reliable conveying your message.  Lecture 351. h = -(log 1/10)2. There are so many factors that go into figuring out the probabilities of higher-order.3. The zero-order model assumes all characters are equally likely. The first-day model assumes that all symbols are independent of each other and gets the probability of each symbol occurring. The second and third-order models are the probability of digrams and trigrams respectively. Lecture 361. It is some complicated computation about the likelihood of the event and that is hard to compute.2. The more the observer knows, the less information you need to convey to reduce his uncertainty.3. Entropy can be used to measure e the amount of redundancy in an encoding. If the information content of a message is equal to the length of the encoded message, there is no redundancy. Lecture 371. The encryption has some certain level of frequency. 2. Encryption is the opposite of decryption. Typically they are the same algorithm and the keys are often the same.  3. It renders the message less useful/meaningful but preserves the information.4. The redundancy may show some regularity about the amount of symbols used and the attack can use this to get some leverage on the decryption process.Lecture 381. P = D(C) 2. P = D(C, KD)3. It may give them some clues about the scenario.4. By knowing the frequencies of the letters in a language, someone can analyze the probability of some of those letters being in the message. Lecture 391. There are a lot of possibilities and it may take a really long time.   2. If you have a bit string of length n, there are 2^n possibilities. If you just do a linear search on that, you find the right one half way down and that means 2^n-1 operations.3. In combination, they are very powerful and almost all modern commercial symmetric ciphers use them.4. Confusion takes a symbol in plain text and replaces it with something else to cause the attacker to have trouble extracting that original symbol. Diffusion takes the information content at a particular place in the plain text and either moving it somewhere else or smearing it out over the cipher text. 5. A combination is best but diffusion would probably be better.Lecture 401. Monoalphabetic cipher is a substitution cipher that is done uniformly. A Polyaphabetic substitution makes different substitutions depending on where in the plaintext the symbol occurs. 2. The key is whatever you specify for the 1-1 mapping. 3. K! is the number of combinations that it can use.4. The key is the amount of space you shift. 5. Probably not. 6. Look up the letter in the Vigenere Tableau with the corresponding key and get the plaintext.Lecture 411. Since it is 3 letters and the English alphabet has 26 letters, then the possible decryptions are 26^3 = 17576. 2. Since we know that it is now a simple substitution cipher, that means the letters for both y’s have to be the same and after choosing a letter for x there are only 25 options left for y. That makes it 26 x 25.3. Yes. There should be a way to not allow any reduction to uncertainty. Lecture 421. Anyone of those possible plaintexts might be the pre-image if the ciphertext. There is no way to remove any of the possibilities. 2. By being random, you know absolutely nothing about the key and maintain that it is a perfect encryption. 3. If they have a secure channel to send the key, they can just send the plaintext, but if they do not have a secure channel, they have no way of sending the key securely. Lecture 431. It preservers the symbols in a text and that can be a downside because someone can analyze the letter frequencies to verify whether or not it is a transposition cipher. Lecture 441. Symmetric.2. Key distribution is the method of conveying keys to those who need them to establish secure communication and key management is how to preserve the safety of them and how to make them available. 3. No because that is the public key. The only way to decrypt a message, they need the Ks-1 (private key).4. A public key system because adding a key is order of O(n) while a symmetric one is O(n^2). Lecture 451. Block ciphers are less susceptible to modifications and have a higher level of diffusion.2. Malleability means that changes can be made to the ciphertext that will make meaningful changes to the plaintext. 3. Homomorphic encryption is a form of encryption which allows specific types of computations to be carried out on ciphertext and generate an encrypted result which, when decrypted, matches the result of operations performed on the plaintext. Lecture 461. SubBytes uses confusion by look using its value as an index into a 256-element looks up table, and replace the byte by the value stored at the location in the table.2. ShiftRows uses diffusion by shifting rows.3. When inverting the MixColumns step, it requires multiplying by larger numbers.4. You use blocks in order to take input in fixed size blocks. By using rounds, you’ve so mangled the original input that it is very difficult for someone to invert the process without knowing the key. 5. By using more rounds, it makes inverting the process even more difficult.Lecture 471. Identical blocks in the plaintext yield identical blocks in the ciphertext.2. We can randomize the plaintext blocks before they are encrypted.3. An attacker is able to observe changes to ciphertext over time and be able to spot the first block that changed. If an attack can find two identical ciphertext blocks, he can derive information about two plaintext blocks. 4. Block encryption modes generate ciphertext that stores the message in encrypted but recoverable form. In a key stream generation modes, the cipher is used more as a pseudorandom number generator. The result is a key stream that can be used as in one-time pad. Decryption uses the same key stream.Lecture 481. The private key should be kept secret.2. It should be easily computable so that the sender than encrypt their message with the public key and send it but it should be difficult to invert so that no attack can read the message without knowing the private key. 3. You just need the public key and it doesn’t matter if anyone else knows it as long as no one knows the private key. 4. P = {P}K-15. The public key encryption may take 10,000 times as long to perform as a symmetric encryption.Lecture 491. I believe so. It is just the inverse when encrypting and decrypting.2. Prime numbers are important for the applied mathematics that deal with their keys.3. No.4. Because only A has the key which will allow the decryption.5. Because anyone can have A’s public keys. 6. Because no one besides B has that private key. 7. They can use B’s public key to read the message.8. By using two pairs of keys, one for privacy and one for signing. Lecture 501. So that it can convert an given data from variable-sized text into a small datum.2. Strong collision resistance is if it is hard to find two message m1 and m2 such that f(m1) = f(m2) while weak you have to fine m2 != m1.3. Preimage is hard to find any m such that h=f(m) while second preimage is when given an input m1, it is hard to find m2 != m1 such that f(m1) = f(m2).4. That means there is 2^128 possible values. The square root of that is 2^64. You have to look at 1.25 * (2^64) values before you find a collision.5. 2^160 possible values. Have to look at 1.25*(2^80) values.6. We want to know if the copy retrieve is identical to the one that was stored, and the correct transmission of a message may override confidentiality concerns. 7. We seal the file to make it tamper-proof. This is binding the bytes of a file together in a way that makes any alterations to the file apparent.8. Using cryptographic hash functions B can maintain integrity and using the RSA maintain confidentiality. Lecture 511. No because it should be {{K}KS-1}KR}, but instead it says KR-1 which implies that S has R’s private key.2. Yes. You can encrypt using R’s public and then sign using your private to encrypt. 3. Yes, if S decrypts the outer part it should be the same. 4. Key exchange requires both confidentiality and authentication.Lecture 521. They can discover the value. 2. If a is known, the eavesdropper can intercept the message from Bob and get the value.3. If b is known, the eavesdropped can intercept the message from Alice and get the value. 