Brandon Craig
bsc526
bcraig

Lecture 34:
1. Because 
2. More redundancy allows for a greater chance of recovery of data in a noisy channel by decreasing the chance 
a piece of data will be corrupted by noise

Lecture 35
1. 4.75
2. Natural languages contain high amounts of redundancy, and it requires very complex models to compute properly
3. The difference is the complexity of the models. Zero-order uses 

Lecture 36
1. Its based on the relative knowledge of the receiver
2. Because the level of certainty is different and thus the probability will change per person
3. 

Lecture 37
1. 
2. OPtional because the encryption may just shift the letters by a fixed amount of ascii value which requires no key
3. 
4. Redundancy can help figure out the probability of a cipher symbol representing 

Lecture 38
1. {{{{P}}}
2. {{{P}_ke}_ke}_kd
3, To break cipher texts, infer meaning without breaking an algorithm
4. 

Lecture 39
1. Because the size of the keyspace is too large for a brute-force algorithm to search through
2. 
3. Because they act as simple building blocks for more complex algorithms such as AES
4. Confusion is the transforming of information in plaintext so that an interceptor cannot readily extract it
Diffusion is the spreading of information from a region of plaintext widely over the ciphertext
5. confusion

Lecture 40
1. monoalphabetic: each symbol of the plain text is exchanged for another symbol uniformly
   polyalphabetic: different substitutions are made depending on where you are in the plaintexts

2. its the one-one mapping of symbols
3. Because there are k! possible different keys that could possibly be the 
4. The key is the distance away the symbols will be away from the plaintexts
5. 25
6. No
7. 

Lecture 41
1. because there is 26 possible letters per each letter index. since xyy is 3 letters long its 26^3 possibilities
2. 
3. No. The key must be chosen randomly and computers cant make truly random strings

Lecture 42
1. Every possible plaintext could be the pre-image of that ciphertext so you cant reduce the keyspace
2. If they arent random the keyspace can be reduced
3. If sender and receiver already have a secure channel they dont need a key, and if they dont then how can they agree on the key in a secure way

Lecture 43
1. 

Lecture 44
1. symmetric
2. key distribution refers to how do we get keys to the ones who need them
   Key management refers to how do we preserve theiry safety and make them available as needed
3. No. That key is for encryption
4. asymmetric

Lecture 45
1. 
2. malleable if transformations on the ciphertexts produce meaninful changes in the plaintext
3. 

Lecture 46
1. subBytes which takes each byte in the array and replaces it from a 256 element lookup table. 
2.
3. because is requires multiplying each column by a fixed array
4. 
5. To increase the difficulty of decryption

Lecture 47
1. ECB will use the same key for every block
2. Randomized blocks before they're encrypted
3. content leak by finding identical cipher blocks
4. 

Lecture 48
1. private key
2. because then they would be symmetric and only need a public key
3. because the private key which is internally computed is whats needed to decrypt
4. asymmetric takes more time to compute both ways

Lecture 49
1. No. The encryption/decryption is one way based on the keys
2. 
3. yes
4. because its encrypted with A's public key
5. because the key is public
6. Because its only decrytable with b's public key
7. by applying the public key to it
8. sign the messages with pricate keys first
 