Name: David Barron
EID: db25633
csID: davidbar
email: d.barron91@utexas.edu
CS 361 Young
HW5

L66
1.	Pretty Good Privacy - “…The closest you're likely to get to military-grade encryption…”
2.	Distrusts of Government.
3.	Yes…
4.	It’s easier for companies to call on someone to provide maintenance.
L67
1.	Sender generates hash of Message, locks with private key, sends both to Receiver, Receiver opens hash with public key, generates new hash, compares hashes.
2.	Sender generates Message and Key, encrypts Message with Key, encrypts Key with Receiver’s public key, sends to Receiver, receiver decrypts Key with private key, decrypts Message with Key.
3.	Put the two together.
L68
1.	Compression, Email compatibility, and Segmentation.
2.	Save bandwidth.
3.	So the signature does not depend on the compression algorithm.
4.	Maps 3 octets into 4 ASCII characters, easier to handle ASCII.
5.	To makes sure the mailer doesn’t complain about a message being too large.
L69
1.	Session Key, Public Key, Private Key, Passphrase-based Key.
2.	Random Key plus encrypting with old Key = new key. 
3.	See Above.
4.	With a randomly generated prime number.
5.	Store them in encrypted folder.
L70
1.	Send Key ID, the last 64 bits of the public key used.
2.	Timestamp, Key ID, Public Key, encrypted Private Key, User ID.
3.	Same as private, minutes the encrypted Private Keys
4.	Use a passphrase
5.	To determine who the key belongs to.
6.	Send revocation certificate to tell other subjects to not to use that key anymore.
L71
1.	Producer is more common. Consumer – Attacker gets between client and service and disrupts communication. Producer – Attacker makes many requests to the service so that the server is overwhelmed.
2.	Attacker sends lots and lots of packages to the server; legit clients do not get service as the server table is full.
3.	Resource intensive, disallows legit slow clients, or may be hard to implement. 
L72
1.	So the bad packets don’t even get through to the server.
2.	Detection occurs once the attack has begun, Prevention occurs before any attack has begun.
3.	Have lots of servers to prevent being overwhelmed, filter packages, slow everything down, request additional traffic from all requestors.
L73
1.	False Positive – Detect Attack when none exists. False Negative – Fail to detect Attack. False Negative is worse, thought it depends on situation.
2.	Accurate – detects all genuine attacks. Precise – never reports legitimate behavior as attack.
3.	You can go to either extreme; allow Flag none (accurate) or all (precise).
4.	Probability of a False Positive is high, despite high accuracy rate.
L74
1.	Use a buffer-overflow vulnerability in Microsoft IIS websites to break in.
2.	 Not really.
3.	A reboot solves the problem, but it can quickly be infected again because the vulnerability is still there.
4.	It actually used a random seed in the random number generated.
L75
1.	Not by very much, other than share the name.
2.	Because it was useful, and not many people patched machines.
3.	Install backdoors on machines.
4.	Easy to infect, and are likely to be running the same software. Easy to circulate.
5.	Patch and update yo stuff, dawg!
L76
1.	Most people don’t know how to secure their machines or how to interpret their needs.
2.	Determine requirements, Determine assurance requirements, Determine they can be met, Measure result.
3.	Because Cryptography is a specialized area. 
4.	From Basic security, all the way to complete envelope protection.
L77
1.	Secure System evaluation criteria.
2.	It is used by many countries.
3.	So countries can tweak their own schemes and not be dependent on another country.
4.	PP – description of a family of products. ST – doc containing reqs of a product to be evaluated.
L78
1.	Specify generally different ways to access a system securely.
2.	Specify certain section of the CC requirements to be used in the security of the system.
3.	To determine if you have thought about all threats.
L79
1.	A user won’t compromise the system in some way. 
2.	One says what security means for the system, the other then goes on to say how they worked to provide that security.
L80
1.	Assurance Levels – to tell the user how stringent the security of the system is.
2.	The government or certifying agency.
3.	The requirements may be different from country to country, and designers may abuse these levels in marketing. 
4.	NOOoooo. That defeats the purpose of the agencies.
5.	Because you need a formal mathematical model to prove things.

