Ian Smith
ics245
icsmith

CS361 Questions: Week 3
The questions marked with a dagger (†) require external research and may be more extensive and time consuming. You don’t have to do them for the assignment but, but do them to increase your competency in the class.
Lecture 34
1. Why is it impossible to transmit a signal over a channel at an average rate greater than C/h?
Because you can't send more bits than the channel can hold, and can't send symbols more efficiently than the entropy.
2. How can increasing the redundancy of the coding scheme increase the reli- ability of transmitting a message over a noisy channel?
It will be easier to tell which bits are noise and which bits are legitimate
Lecture 35
1. If we want to transmit a sequence of the digits 0-9. According to the zero- order model, what is the entropy of the language?
log2(9)
2. What are reasons why computing the entropy of a natural language is difﬁ- cult?
You can send the same semantic message in a natural language with many different syntaxes
3. Explain the difference between zero, ﬁrst, second and third-order models.
Zero order is naive, first order considers the probability of single symbols, second order considers the probability of digrams, and third considers trigrams
Lecture 36
1. Why are prior probabilities sometimes impossible to compute?
It might be a new language we've never encountered before
2. Why is the information content of a message relative to the state of knowl- edge of an observer?
If the observer already knows what the message will be, no information is sent, and the opposite holds true as well
3. Explain the relationship between entropy and redundancy.
They are inversely related. High entropy is very efficient but most succeptible to noise, redundancy is not very efficient but noise resistant
Lecture 37
1. List your observations along with their relevance to cryptography about Captain Kidd’s encrypted message.
There seems to be a lot of reused symbols, and the symbol set is very limited
2. Explain why a key may be optional for the processes of encryption or de- cryption.
A Caesar cipher can be performed without a key, and easily decrypted without a key
3. What effect does encrypting a ﬁle have on its information content?
Confusion and diffusion
4. How can redundancy in the source give clues to the decoding process?
You could infer what plaintext results in which redudancy
CS361 Questions: Week 3 2
Lecture 38
1. Rewrite the following in its simplest form: D(E(D(E(P)))).
P
2. Rewrite the following in its simplest form: D(E(E(P,KE),KE),KD).
E(P,KE)
3. Why might a cryptanalyst want to recognize patterns in encrypted mes- sages?
To deduce the language or algorithms used in the plaintext
4. How might properties of language be of use to a cryptanalyst?
Letter frequencies, digrams, trigrams, average word lengths
Lecture 39
1. Explain why an encryption algorithm, while breakable, may not be feasible to break?
Maybe an exhaustive search on half the keyspace would still take an enormous amount of time.
2. Why, given a small number of plaintext/ciphertext pairs encrypted under key K, can K be recovered by exhausteive search in an expected time on the order of 2n−1 operations?
You can check ciphertext against your known pairs to narrow down the keyspace
3. Explain why substution and transposition are both important in ciphers.
Substitution creates confusion, and transposition creates diffusion
4. Explain the difference between confusion and diffusion.
Confusion changes plaintext into different symbols, diffusion spreads the symbols apart
5. Is confusion or diffusion better for encryption?
They are two sides of the same coin.
Lecture 40
1. What is the difference between monoalphabetic and polyalphabetic substi- tution?
Monoalphabetic substitutes directly, and polyalphabetic substitutes according to letter and string position
2. What is the key in a simple substitution cipher?
The mapping of the shifts
3. Why are there k! mappings from plaintext to ciphertext alphabets in simple substitution?
Because when one letter is used, there are k-1 choices for the next letter
4. What is the key in the Caesar Cipher example?
The size of the shift
5. What is the size of the keyspace in the Caesar Cipher example?
The size of the alphabet
6. Is the Caesar Cipher algorithm strong?
no
7. What is the corresponding decryption algorithm to the Vigenere ciphertext example?
The inverse Caeser cipher for every letter in the key 
CS361 Questions: Week 3 3
Lecture 41
1. Why are there 17576 possible decryptions for the “xyy” encoding on slide 3?
If the sybols are thought to be independently ciphered, if you discover one letter, you learn nothing about the other two.
2. Why is the search space for question 2 on slide 3 reduced by a factor of 27?
Because now you know when you find the substitution for one letter, it is elimnated as a possibility for the others.
3. Do you think a perfect cipher is possible? Why or why not?
Yes, because I saw the lecture about the one-time pad.
Lecture 42
1. Explain why the one-time pad offers perfect encryption.
The plaintext and keys share the same space, so any plaintext can be encrypted by any random key.
2. Why is it important that the key in a one-time pad be random?
To prevent attackers from cutting down the possible key choices.
3. Explain the key distribution problem.
If we need to send a key across an unsecure channel, how do we get it there without it being picked up? If you have a secure channel to send the key through, why not just send the message through that channel instead?
Lecture 43
1. What is a downside to using encryption by transposition?
The plaintext symbols are not changed, and first-level entropy is preserved. The attacker can use this knowledge to recognize a transposition cipher.
Lecture 44
1. Is a one-time pad a symmetric or asymmetric algorithm?
Symmetric, you will never find the plaintext if you don't have the same key.
2. Describe the difference between key distribution and key management.
Key distribution is getting keys to everyone without overlap, and key management is keeping track of all the key pairings
3. If someone gets a hold of Ks, can he or she decrypt S’s encrypted messages? Why or why not?
Yes, in a symmetric system.
4. Are symmetric encryption systems or public key systems better?
Depends on how many key holders and how secure you want your keys.
Lecture 45
1. Why do you suppose most modern symmetric encryption algorithms are block ciphers?
They encrypt larger amounts of data quicker than streaming would.
2. What is the signiﬁcance of malleability?
If your cipher is malleable, then it is easy to make meaningful changes to the plaintext
3. What is the signiﬁcance of homomorphic encryption?
The homomorphic property of various cryptosystems can be used to create secure voting systems, collision-resistant hash functions, and private information retrieval schemes.
CS361 Questions: Week 3 4
Lecture 46
1. Which of the 4 steps in AES uses confusion and how is it done?
subBytes by substituting bytes in the plaintext with bytes in a lookup table, mixColumns by multiplying values, and addRoundKey by manipulating the bits with an XOR
2. Which of the 4 steps in AES uses diffusion and how is it done?
shiftRows by shifting bytes into new positions
3. Why does decryption in AES take longer than encryption?
Because the mixColumns step for decryption is not as easily optimized
4. Describe the use of blocks and rounds in AES.
Blocks are used to manipulate data, and rounds are used to recursively make the encryption stronger
5. Why would one want to increase the total number of Rounds in AES?
Like shuffling a pack of cards, using the same algorithm multiple times will make the results even more random
Lecture 47
1. What is a disadvantage in using ECB mode?
Identical blocks will be changed in identical ways
2. How can this ﬂaw be ﬁxed?
Cipher Block Chaining
3. What are potential weaknesses of CBC?
Content leaks, watermark
4. How is key stream generation different from standard block encryption modes?
It's used to create a psuedo-random number, and usually is not intended to be decrypted back to the original seed
Lecture 48
1. For public key systems, what must be kept secret in order to ensure secrecy?
Private keys
2. Why are one-way functions critical to public key systems?
Because they are computationally difficult to reverse
3. How do public key systems largely solve the key distribution problem?
If someone knows your public key, they can't decrypt anything encrypted with it
4. Simplify the following according to RSA rules: {{{P}K−1}K}K−1.
{P}K-1
5. Compare the efﬁciency of asymmetric algorithms and symmetric algorithms.
A symmetric algorithm is about 20 times more efficient if we use the 128-bit to 3000-bit comparison.
Lecture 49
1. If one generated new RSA keys and switched the public and private keys, would the algorithm still work? Why or why not?
Yes, because RSA is symmetric.
2. Explain the role of prime numbers in RSA.
If both keys are a large prime number, it is hard to find one or the other without knowing either of them
3. Is RSA breakable?
Not feasibly. It would take a very long exhaustive search of prime number combinations
4. Why can no one intercepting {M}Ka read the message?
It can only be decrypted with A's private key
CS361 Questions: Week 3 5
5. Why can’t A be sure {M}Ka came from B?
Because someone else can have his public key and spoof the message
6. Why is A sure {M}K−1 b
originated with B?
Because only B would be able to use that key to encrypt it.
7. How can someone intercepting {M}K−1 b
read the message?
If B's public key is known, they simply use that.
8. How can B ensure authentication as well as conﬁdentiality when sending a message to A?
Use encryptions of both A and B
Lecture 50
1. Why is it necessary for a hash function to be easy to compute for any given data?
So you can quickly hash data of any arbitrary size.
2. What is the key difference between strong and weak collision resistance of a hash function.
Strong collision resistance should have different hashes even if m1 = m2
3. What is the difference between preimage resistance and second preimage resistance?
Preimage resistance says it's hard to find a message that will hash into the hash that you have, and second preimage resistance says that it is hard to find two different messages that hash into the same value.
4. What are the implications of the birthday attack on a 128 bit hash value?
There are possible hash collisions after 1.25*2^64 inputs.
5. What are the implications of the birthday attack on a 160 bit hash value?
There are possible hash collisions after 1.25*2^80 inputs.
6. Why aren’t cryptographic hash functions used for conﬁdentiality?
It is much more useful in verifying integrity.
7. What attribute of cryptographic hash functions ensures that message M is bound to H(M), and therefore tamper-resistant?
If H is modified even slightly, M will change drastically.
8. Using RSA and a cryptographic hash function, how can B securely send a message to A and guarantee both conﬁdentiality and integrity?
You could send a message encrypted with a hashed version of your private key
Lecture 51
1. For key exchange, if S wants to send key K to R, can S send the following message: {{K}KS−1}K−1 R ? Why or why not?
No because if someone has the public keys for S and R they can decode it.
2. In the third attempt at key exchange on slide 5, could S have done the en- cryptions in the other order? Why or why not?
Yes, it would still enforce integrity and authenticity, but it's a little less secure because anyone with S's public key could open the outer shell.
3. Is {{{K}KS−1}KR}KS equivalent to {{K}K−1 S}KR?
No because R would have to know S's private key to unlock it.
4. What are the requirements of key exchange and why?
Integrity to protect the data, and Authenticity to verify the sender
CS361 Questions: Week 3 6
Lecture 52
1. What would happen if g, p and gamodp were known by an eavesdropper listening in on a Difﬁe-Hellman exchange?
The listener would not learnd the secret number.
2. What would happen if a were discovered by an eavesdropper listening in on a Difﬁe-Hellman exchange?
He could use that number with the info b sends to find their secret number. He could do nothing with that number alone.
3. What would happen if b were discovered by an eavesdropper listening in on a Difﬁe-Hellman exchange?
Same as before but for a.