Ian Buitrago
CS user:keo
UTEID: ib
kieldro@gmail.com
6-12-2014

CS361 Questions: Week 1

# turnin --submit jimmylin cs361_hw1 q1.txt

Lecture 1
1. What uses of the term “security” are relevant to your everyday life?
*physical security of property and financial security
2. What do these have in common?
*safety
3. Have you been a victim of lax security?
*Yes, most people have
4. What is the likelihood that your laptop is infected? How did you decide?
* unlikely because it's Linux
5. What security measures do you employ on your laptop?
* take caution when installing programs
6. Do you think they are probably effective?
* I hope so
7. Consider the quote from the FBI official on slide 10. Do you think it over-
states the case? Justify your answer.
*Yes, they were probably trying to sway Congress for more funding.
8. What is the importance in learning about computer security?
*Computers will become more prevalent and more used in the future. Thus there is more to lose and more incentive for the malevolent.

Lecture 2
1. Consider the five reasons given why security is hard. Can you think of other
factors?
*It's a field that is constantly increasing in complexity as technology advances.
2. Is there a systematic way to enumerate the “bad things” that might happen
to a program? Why or why not?
*Maybe for covert channels, but for bad things in general probably not because of the sheer number of possibilities.
3. Explain the asymmetry between the defender and attacker in security.
*Defender has to account for all vulnerabilities whereas the attacker only has to find 1.
4. Examine the quotes from Morris and Chang. Do you agree? Why or why
not?
*Yes, there will always be some vulnerability.
5. Explain the statement on slide 8 that a tradeoff is typically required.
*Increased security always comes at a cost. Especially ease of use.

Lecture 3
1. Define “risk”?
*The expected value of loss.
2. Do you agree that software security is about managing risk?
*Yes
3. Name and explain a risk you accept, one you avoid, one you mitigate, and
one you transfer?
*The risk of being kidnapped and tortured for my passwords. Malware on Windows by using Linux. Using different passwords. Health insurance.
4. Evaluate annualized loss expectancy as a risk management tool.
*It's a good starting point but there are other factors to consider.
5. List some factors relevant to rational risk assessment.
*Expected value and pyschological peace

Lecture 4
1. Explain the key distinction between the lists on slides 2 and 3.
*slide 2 is a list of principles to implement. slide 3 are tools to accomplish that goal.
2. Consider your use of computing in your personal life. Which is most im-
portant: confidentiality, integrity, availability? Justify your answer.
*Confidentiality, I need my passwords to be secret because they protect important accounts.
3. What does it mean “to group and categorize data”?
*group into security levels and categorize into topics.
4. Why might authorizations change over time?
*Promotions and demotions.
5. Some of the availability questions seem to relate more to reliability than to
security. How are the two related?
*If the data you need is unavailable, then it's can't be access reliably.
6. In what contexts would authentication and non-repudiation be considered
important?
*Online shopping.

Lecture 5
1. Describe a possible metapolicy for a cell phone network? A military database?
*Making sure customers always have access to the network. Keeping confidential documents away from the enemy.
2. Why do you need a policy if you have a metapolicy?
*A policy works out the logistics of implementing the metapolicy.
3. Give three possible rules within a policy concerning students’ academic
records.
*Only students and adminitstrators can access records. Only admins can change records. Other professor's can't change the student's records.
4. Could stakeholders’ interest conflict in a policy? Give an example.
*Availability could be sacrificed for more confidnetiality, a difficult security procedure to access grades.
5. For the example given involving student SSNs, state the likely metapolicy.
*Protect students from identity theft.
6. Explain the statement: ”If you don’t understand the metapolicy, it becomes
difficult to justify and evaluate the policy.”
*You need a goal.

Lecture 6
1. Why is military security mainly about confidentiality? Are there also as-
pects of integrity and availability?
*Keeping secrets the the most important, but keeping those secrets intact and readable is also .important
2. Describe the major threat in our MLS thought experiment.
*The enemy reading the war plans.
3. Why do you think the proviso is there?
*So that students don't get the impression  that this example is a good all around system.
4. Explain the form of the labels we’re using.
*Security level and an element from an unordered set of categories
5. Why do you suppose we’re not concerned with how the labels get there?
*That was set when the system was launched.
6. Rank the facts listed on slide 6 by sensitivity.
*a. The Normandy invasion is schedule
b. The British have broken the German Enigma codes.
c. Col. Smith didn’t get a raise.
d. Col. Jones just got a raise.
e. The base softball team has a game tomorrow at 3pm.
f. The cafeteria is serving chopped beef on toast today.
7. Invent labels for documents containing each of those facts.
* a. (Top Secret, {nuclear}) The Normandy invasion is schedule
b. (Top Secret, {crypto}) The British have broken the German Enigma codes.
c. (Classified, {personnel}) Col. Smith didn’t get a raise.
d. (Classified, {personnel}) Col. Jones just got a raise.
e. (unclassified, {personnel}) The base softball team has a game tomorrow at 3pm.
f. (unclassified, {personnel}) The cafeteria is serving chopped beef on toast today.
8. Justify the rules for “mixed” documents.
*The highest security should be used between several categories

Lecture 7
1. Document labels are stamped on the outside. How are “labels” affixed to
humans?
*through the security system
2. Explain the difference in semantics of labels for documents and labels for
humans.
*document labels specify the minimum security necessary to access them. For humans their lable it their highest clearance.
3. In the context of computers what do you think are the analogues of docu-
ments? Of humans?
*files and processes
4. Explain why the Principle of Least Privilege makes sense.
*Give humans only the least security necessary
5. For each of the pairs of labels on slide 6, explain why the answers in the
third column do or do not make sense.
*They all make sense. In every case the clearance level is higher than the objects and the objects' categories are subsets of their respective subjects'.

Lecture 8
1. Why do you think we introduced the vocabulary terms: objects, subjects,
actions?
*To generalize scenarios.
2. Prove that dominates is a partial order (reflexive, transitive, antisymmetric).
*if labels dominate each other they are exactly equal (reflexive).
if A dominates B and B dominates C then A dominates C (transitive)
categories are always different from securty level (antisymetric)
3. Show that dominates is not a total order.
4. What would have to be true for two labels to dominate each other?
*They have to be exactly the same.
5. State informally what the the Simple Security property says.
*The subjects must have equal or greater clearance level than the object.
6. Explain why it’s “only if” and not “if and only if.”
*only if means it's necessary but not necessarily sufficient.

Lecture 9
1. Why isn’t Simple Security enough to ensure confidentiality?
*because individuals with high clearance can write down into low clearance objects.
2. Why do we need constraints on write access?
*So informations doesn't travel down.
* So information doesn't flow down to lower security levels.
3. What is it about computers, as opposed to human beings, that makes that
particularly important?
* programs can be running that can write.
4. State informally what the *-Property says.
*Subjects can only write to an object that dominates the subject's classification.
5. What must be true for a subject to have both read and write access to an
object?
* They must have the exact same classification.
6. How could we deal with the problem that the General (top secret) can’t send
orders to the private (Unclassified)?
* make an exception 
7. Isn’t it a problem that a corporal can overwrite the war plan? Suggest how
we might deal with that.
*give write priviledges only to the General

Lecture 10:
1. Evaluate changing a subject’s level (up or down) in light of weak tranquility.
*necessary sometimes.
2. Why not just use strong tranquility all the time?
*The subjects are changing.
3. Explain why lowering the level of an object may be dangerous.
*It could give the subject write access to lower objects.
4. Explain what conditions must hold for a downgrade (lowering object level)
to be secure.
*information from other high level objects must not travel witht the lowered objec.

Lecture 11:
1. Suppose you wanted to build a (library) system in which all subjects had
read access to all files, but write access to none of them. What levels could
you give to subjects and objects?
*
2. Why wouldn’t you usually build an access control matrix for a BLP system?
*unnecessary and probably too large.

Lecture 12
1. Suppose you had hierarchical levels L, H with L < H, but only had one
category A. Draw the lattice. (Use your keyboard and editor to draw it; it
doesn’t have to be fancy.)
*
2. Given any two labels in a BLP system, what is the algorithm for finding
their LUB and GLB?
*
3. Explain why upward flow in the lattice really is the metapolicy for BLP.

Lecture 13
1. Explain how the BLP rules are supposed to enforce the metapolicy in the
example on slide 1.
*
2. Argue that the READ and WRITE operations given satisfy BLP.
*
3. Argue that the CREATE and DESTROY operations given satisfy BLP.
*
4. What has to be true for the covert channel on slide 5 to work?
*
5. Why is the DESTROY statement there?
*
6. Are the contents of any files different in the two paths?
*
7. Why does SL do the same thing in both cases? Must it?
*
8. Why does SH do different things? Must it?
*
9. Justify the statement on slide 7 that begins: “If SL ever sees...”
*

Lecture 14
1. Explain why “two human users talking over coffee is not a covert channel.”
*
2. Is the following a covert channel? Why or why not?
Send 0
|
Send 1
------------------------------------------
Write (SH, F0, 0) | Write (SH, F0, 1)
Read (SL, F0)
| Read (SL, F0)
3. Where does the bit of information transmitted “reside” in Covert Channel
#1?
4. In Covert Channel #2
5. In Covert Channel #3?
6. In Covert Channel #4?
7. Why might a termination channel have low bandwidth?
*
8. What would have to be true to implement a power channel?
*
9. For what sort of devices might power channels arise?
*

Lecture 15
1. Explain why covert channels, while appearing to have such a low band-
width, can potentially be very serious threats.
*
2. Why would it be infeasible to eliminate every potential covert channel?
*
3. If detected, how could one respond appropriately to a covert channel?
*
4. Describe a scenario in which a covert storage channel exists.
*
5. Describe how this covert storage channel can be utilized by the sender and
receiver.
*

Lecture 16
1. Why wouldn’t the “create” operation have an R in the SRMM for the “file
existence” attribute?
*
2. Why does an R and M in the same row of an SRMM table indicate a poten-
tial channel?
*
3. If an R and M are in the same column of an SRMM table, does this also
indicate a potential covert channel? Why or why not?
*
4. Why would anyone want to go through the trouble to create an SRMM
table?
*