Name: Eric Lane
EID: el9297
CS Login: elane
Email: e.lane@utexas.edu

Questions-Week1

Lecture 1:
	1) Mostly personal security
	2) Protection
	3) Heartbleed vulnerability, had to change numerous passwords
	4) I highly doubt it is infected.
	5) Virus scans, network firewalls
	6) Probably, although I don't actually know how they work
	7) It seems like rhetoric to me. There are vulnerabilities in our computer
    systems I'm sure, but I think the United States as a country can survive 
    in spite of them.
    8) To be able to improve security in various settings
Lecture 2
	1) Just adding on to the 5th topic, people will hate your security solution
    if it is difficult or intrusive to use. Design occordingly.
	2) It depends on the system. It is too difficult to think of all
    vulnerabilities in a complex system.
	3) The defender has to think of all possible vulnerabilities, while the 
    attacker simply needs to think of one.
    4) If perfect security is unattainable, then I agree. You can take some 
    countermeasures, but there are always vulnerabilities.
    5) Like I mentioned in my answer to question 1, your solution must be easy
    to use.
Lecture 3
	1) Risk is the chance that your system can be compromised.
	2) Yes, because there are tradeoffs when designing a secure system.
	3)  Acceptance - Costs too much to secure trivial data
        Avoidance - Don't do risky stuff
        Mitigation - Actually do something to avoid a vulnerability
        Transfer - It's not my problem
    4) Makes sense, but it's unfortunate to have to think of security that way
    5) Cost, frequency, time to fix
Lecture 4
	1) Aspects of security vs. Mechanisms to achieve those aspects
	2) Availability. With the exception of financial info, I don't really have anything to hide. I want my data to be easily used and accessed by me.
	3) Keep things categorized based on their worth/sensitivity
    4) People come and go, the ones who went should not be able to access data
    5) A system should operate as expected and should not lose or corrupt data.
    That makes a system reliable, and security should not interfere with that.
    6) Strong example would be finanicial contexts.
Lecture 5
	1) Don't allow phonecalls to be intercepted and eavesdropped on.
        Don't allow civilian or outside access to the database.
	2) The policy explains how to specifically implement the metapolicy.
	3) Metapolicy is protecting the records. Policy would be, don't allow 
    students to modify their records at all, don't allow professors to 
    change grades without approval, and don't allow unauthorized access
    from people outside of the university.
    4) Yes. For example, a professor may attempt to change a grade, but the
    university denies that request.
    5) Do not store student's SSN.
    6) You must know what you're doing before you set out to do it.
Lecture 6
	1) Mainly, you want to prevent unauthorized access to information.
    You also want to keep it from being changed. Availability is 
    important but arguably the least important out of the 3.
	2) People from lower levels being able to see higher level data.
	3) Adapting the policy to the other principles would change the policy.
    4) It's just a way to group and categorize the underlying data.
    5) We may be designing for a system we don't have full access to ourselves.
    6 & 7)  The Normandy invasion is scheduled for June 6. {top secret}
        The British have broken the German Enigma codes. {top secret}
        Col. Smith didn’t get a raise. {classified}
        Col. Jones just got a raise. {classifie}
        The base softball team has a game tomorrow at 3pm. {unclassified}
        The cafeteria is serving chopped beef on toast today. {unclassified}
    8) You should always use the highest appropriate level to avoid problems.
Lecture 7
	1) To the "inside"
	2) A document and a human may have the same label, but different clearance.
	3) Files and processes
    4) You wouldn't want someone from a lower level viewing top secret info.
    5) They all make sense. You can't have someone with "secret" clearance
    viewing "top secret" documents.
Lecture 8
	1) They are more generic terms that can apply to many systems.
	2)  Reflexive: x >= x
        Transitive: [x >= y ^ y >= z] -> x >= z
        Anti-symmetric: [x >= y ^ y >= x] -> x = y
	3) There are security labels A and B, such that neither A>=B nor B>=A.
    4) Both labels would have to be the same level.
    5) You can only read objects at level or below you, not above you.
    6) Your access is not guaranteed.
Lecture 9
	1) It doesn't protect against bad writes.
	2) So that information can't be "leaked" to lower levels.
	3) A user may be cleared, but a program running in the context of the user
        is not cleared.
    4) You can't write to levels lower than you.
    5) If it is trying to read down and write up.
    6) Pass orders down through the hierarchy, or give the private higher 
    clearance.
    7) Yes. Don't allow lower clearance subjects to overwrite higher clearance 
    objects.
Lecture 10
	1) You wouldn't want to move a subject down, but up is fine. 
	2) You sometimes need to change the level of things.
	3) You are giving lower subjects access to a higher level object.
    4) Make sure the object has no residual content before lowering it.
Lecture 11
	1) The subjects would have to have higher level than the objects. That way,
    no write-down could occur but a read-down is possible.
	2) The matrix would be very large.
Lecture 12
	1)      H{A}
            |
            |
            L{A}
	2) In a subset of labels, there exists a Least Upper Bound and Greatest Lower
    Bound.
	3) Other flow of information would violate security goals.
Lecture 13
	1) No downward flow of information
	2) Information can be written up and read down.
	3) You can only create objects at the same level and destroy objects with lower ones.
    4) Sh must be higher than Sl
    5) So that the actions can be repeated with the same state.
    6) The paths are the same but the information within could be changed
    while reading it.
    7) It has to be consistent. It has to perform this sequence.
    8) SH could be created in the right column instead.
    9) Basically you can tell that information is accessible because you can
    receive different results based on the input.
Lecture 14
	1) The transfer of information is direct and in view.
	2) No. The value was explicitly written.
	3) F0
    4) Within the ordering of events
    5) Storage channels
    6) Control flow
    7) You have to wait for a computation to terminate.
    8) One object uses more power than the other
    9) Devices that require a lot of power to run.
Lecture 15
	1) Computers are very fast, and performance hits from covert channels are negligible.
	2) They are incredibly difficult to spot.
	3) You want to close it or restrict the bandwidth to a negligible amount.
    4) The sender and receiver must both have access to an attribute.
    5) Sender modifies the attribute, and he receiver views the attribute.
Lecture 16
	1) It overwrites the object that is there if it already exists.
	2) You can change a value, and then be able to see what it was changed to.
	3) It doesn't. 
    4) It helps to discover potential threats to a system.
