Name: Andrew RubinettEID: ar37846CS Login: ar37846Email: arubinett@gmail.comLecture 1 1. Personal, network, communications, system2. There is information that I want to keep private3. Yes, my twitter account was hacked.4. Pretty high, with as many things I have downloaded and web sites I have visited, there is a good chance I have some type of malware on my computer.5. I have a firewall and a password6. For the simplest threats, they are effective, but they do not protect against everything.7. It may overstate a little, because there are likely some computers that are mostly impenetrable, but the vast majority of systems can likely be hacked with relatively little difficulty.8. As long as there are threats to secure information, people must learn how to protect it.Lecture 21. The technology needed to implement the security systems is constantly changing.2. No, there is a practically infinite number of ways that information can be modified or accessed, with new ways being thought of every day. As long as the systems keep changing, there will be more “bad things” that can happen.3. The defender must protect the system against all threats, whereas the attacker only needs to find one way to infiltrate the system to be successful.4. I agree, there is always some inherent risk with putting any classified information on a computer that no security system can completely, absolutely protect.5. The more precautions put in to protect data, usually the less user-friendly the system is.Lecture 31. The possibility that a particular threat will adversely affect an information system by exploiting a particular vulnerability.2. I agree, if the likelihood of a threat is very low, it may not be worth the time needed to protect against that threat.3. I tolerate driving, I avoid skydiving, I mitigate the flu, and I transfer shipping damages.4. It can be an effective tool, but it cannot be used as an absolute measure all the time.5. A good understanding of the likelihood, ability to imagine future possibilities, and a solid grasp of costs.Lecture 41. Slide 2 discusses the overall goals of what a security system needs, while slide 3 discusses the mechanisms for how those goals will be achieved.2. Integrity, Most of my information is not confidential, and I prioritize having correct information over having access to it all the time because if information is wrong, it doesn’t matter as much if it is available.3. Assign labels to information so it can be accessed by the right people and not accessed by someone who doesn’t need to see it.4. People could get promoted or fired, categories could need to be changed based on new developments or projects.5. A good security system needs to be reliable, or else it cannot truly accomplish its goals.6. In any type of ecommerce setting, authenticity matters so the customer is certain the store is legitimate, and non-repudiation matters so the customer is guaranteed a product they purchase.Lecture 51. A cell phone network should make sure calls are private, while a military database should make sure everybody is able to see the information they need to do their job and nothing more.2. A policy discusses specifics and lays out an actual plan, whereas a metapolicy is simply a guideline.3. Only professors can alter grades, only a student and professors he had can access grades, and grades are always available.4. Yes, a student may want the highest possible grade regardless of integrity, whereas a professor will want the student to receive the correct grade.5. Protect the SSN of students from unauthorized persons to prevent identity theft.6. It is difficult to list the specifics if you don’t know what the general goals are.Lecture 61. The military deals with a lot of information that could be dangerous if it fell into the wrong hands so confidentiality is very important, but integrity and availability are important as well.2. The enemy learning classified plans.3. This security policy does not guarantee integrity or availability.4. There is a rank of security level from an ordered hierarchical list, and a collection of categories that describe the contents of the document.5. How the labels got there does not affect how to secure the information.6. Order: 2, 6, 4, 5, 1, 37. Administrative Unclassified, Financial Classified, War Secret, War Top Secret8. If a person does not have access to all categories of a document, it cannot access that document because it would have access to information it shouldn’t have access to. Lecture 71. There is a record of what label corresponds to each human.2. The document label categorizes the type of information contained within the document, whereas the human level shows the level of trust given to a certain person.3. Objects, subjects4. If information isn’t given to someone, they cannot leak it. The Principle of Least Privilege gives information to the least amount of people while still allowing all work to get done.5. All three answers in the third document make sense because in each case, the person is allowed or disallowed access to a document depending on whether or not they have a high enough security clearance.Lecture 81. To make it easier to visualize the mechanisms within a security system.2. Set operations are transitive, reflexive, and antisymmetrical, as are a linear hierarchy, and the dominates relationship uses these two components, so it means the dominates is all of those.3. If an object has the highest security level and no need-to-know categories, and a subject has the lowest security level and all need-to-know categories, then neither dominates the other, so dominates cannot be total order.4. They would have to be identical.5. Subjects only have access to objects such that the subject security clearance dominates the object security clearance AKA the subject has a security level equal to or higher than the object to be accessed.6. There could be other reasons as to why a subject cannot access a certain object.Lecture 91. Simple Security only constrains read access, yet information can still flow in the wrong direction due to improper write access permissions.2. A subject with a high security level can copy the contents of a confidential file and write them to a file in a lower security level, which violates confidentiality.3. Human beings can make decisions depending on the circumstances, whereas a computer will act according to however they were set up regardless of any extenuating circumstances.4. Subjects can only write to objects that have a security level equal to or greater than that of the subject.5. The object must have the exact same security level as the subject.6. Either use a means of communication outside the secure system, or rewrite the rules to allow people to write down.7. We figure out some way to maintain integrity that doesn’t allow people to write to documents they don’t have access to by implementing some new rules.Lecture 101. A subject’s level would only be changed if the level of documents needed to be accessed changes one way or the other.2. Someone may be promoted or be put on a project that causes them to need access to a higher security clearance, which wouldn’t be allowed with strong tranquility.3. Confidential information may be open to people it should not be open to.4. The object doesn’t contain any information that should be confidential to those at the security level it is being downgraded to.Lecture 111. The subjects would be given the highest possible security level, and the objects would be given the lowest possible security level.2. It can be tedious, and the computations can be easily computed on the fly.Lecture 121.   H  ^  |  L2.  The LUB is the highest security level of the pair and all of the need-to-know categories, in the pair, whereas the GLB is the lowest security level of the pair and every need-to-know category of the lower security level subject except for one.3. Upward flow means that information flows from lower security clearances to higher security clearances and not the other way around, which is the basis of the BLP system.Lecture 131. Reads can only be performed on objects with the same or lower security clearance and writes can only be performed on objects with the same or higher security clearance. This ensures the proper flow of information.2. READ satisfies the Simple Security Property, whereas WRITE satisfies the *-Property.3. CREATE puts a file in a place where a subject has permission to put it, and DESTROY edits a file that a subject has permission to edit.4. The operations are as defined and it is a BLP system.5. So this process can be put in a loop and run many times.6. No7. SL must do the same thing because it has no idea what SH is going to do, so it cannot act according to what SH does because it doesn’t know.8. SH must do different things because since SL is doing the same thing every time, the only way to change the message is for SH to do something different.9. If SL ever sees a different value according to what SH does, then SH is in effect sending a message to SL. This message can be used to send information against the desired flow, which violates the metapolicy.Lecture 141. It is outside the mechanisms of the system.2. No, SL will get the same result regardless of what SH does.3. The existence of the file4. The system clock5. The order of the files returned6. The value of h7. Only one bit of information may be sent for each process, and each process could take any amount of time.8. A subject must be able to manipulate the amount of power used, and another subject must be able to access the amount of power used.9. Devices that run on a battery, or any time a process uses up a certain amount of some resource of which there is a fixed amount.Lecture 151. The covert channels can be run many times over, transmitting entire documents bit by bit, which can send classified information the wrong way.2. Eliminating all covert channels would take a lot of time and may not be necessary to give a high likelihood for a secure system.3. Eliminate it, reduce the bandwidth, or monitor it4. A high level process can modify some attribute of an object that a low level process can access.5. The sender does one of two actions on a certain attribute of an object. The receiver accesses that attribute that changes depending on what operation the sender performed.Lecture 161. The create operation gives no indication whether or not it succeeds at creating the file.2. Because one subject can modify an attribute of an object that another subject can reference, thereby sending information.3. No, if the attribute modified isn’t the same as the attribute referenced, no information can be sent.4. To see where covert channels could be