Holden Smith
EID: hrs534
CS login: holden
email: holden.smith08@gmail.com

Lecture 34:

1. It is impossible because the intropy h is the minimum average number of bits needed to convey one piece of information. It is impossible to sustain a message using fewer bits using the same alphabet/frequency.
2. Increasing the redundancy makes each encodable piece of information appear more unique, therefore requiring more noise to reduce the decodability of the message.

Lecture 35:

1. h = -(log2(1/10)) = 3.322 approx.
2. It is difficult because it is possible to convery the meaning of a message at an encoding level close to the entropy, but it is not always possible to copy the message author's exact style. Ex: the difference between yes and indubitably
3. Zero order assumes all characters are equally likely to appear, first order accounts for the fact that some letters appear more often, and lastly second order accounts for the fact that some letters appear more often when following another specific letter.

Lecture 36:

1. They are sometimes impossible to compute because there is not enough prior information to notice the probabilities and because the computation may be done on-the-fly.
2. This is because the observer may already know the outcome of a message with 0 uncertainty (like the host announcing the winner at an awards show vs. the audience)
3. The closer the message is encoded to the entropy level, the less redundency that message will have.

Lecture 37:

1. The message was found in the carribean, so if it is an encoding of a spoken language, then it can reasonably be assumed to be english, spanish or french. If it is indeed the locations to Kidd's treasue (hence the english pun on the goat's head) then the language may also represent cardinal directions to reach the treasure.
2. A key may not be neccessary because the process for encoding and decoding is already known by both parties and is expected to remain consistent.
3. Encrypting a file makes the message unreadable until roperly decoded again. The message should remain unchanged from the original once decoded.
4. If redundancy is still detectable in the encoded message, then an attacker may be able to leverage their knowledge of this redundancy to deduce more properties of the original message (like letter frequencies)

Lecture 38:

1. D(E(D(E(P)))) = P
2. D(E(E(P,Ke),Ke),Kd) = E(P,Ke)
3. Because it may allow them to deduce some meaning of the message without actually having to go through the effort of breaking the algorithm.
4. The cryptanalyst may be able to use patterns and common sequences present in the language to attempt to find paterns in the encoded message.

Lecture 39:

1. Breaking certain ciphers may be unfeasable because to run through all possible encipherments may take a prohibitively long time.
2. Because on-average, you will find the correct cipher during a linear, brute force search about halfway through the total cipher-space.
3. They are powerful in combination because the number of possible cipher combinations rises exponentially when repeated.
4. Confusion is the act of transforming information so that it cannot be readily extracted if intercepted. Diffusion is speading the information out from one region of the plain text over a larger region of the cipher text.
5. Both are neccessary for a good cipher since neither one can be accomplished alone by either substitution or transposition.

Lecture 40:

1. A monoalphabetic cipher is one in which each symbol in the plaintext is exchanged for another uniformly. A polyalphabetic substitution is one where the substitution of a letter of the plaintext is dependent on its position within the plaintext.
2. The key is a table or other scheme that exhibits the mapping.
3. Because of the law of permutations. For example, in english there are 26 letters that be substituted for the first letter in the alphabet, 25 for the second, 24 for the third and etc.. Multiplying these choices gives k! possibilities.
4. The key in a Caesar cipher is the number of spaces that the substitution has moved circularly around the alphabet.
5. The size of the keyspace is k, where k is the number of letters in the alphabet
6. No, it is not strong because character frequency can be used as a shortcut when examining known frequencies of the plaintext language suspected.
7. To decrypt a vigenere ciphertext, you find the corresponding plaintext letter from the table by looking up the intersetction of the key's column and the ciphertext's letter. The resulting row gives the original plaintext value of the letter.

Lecture 41:

1. Because there are 26 possible letters that can go at any one spot (without knowing the cipher method). 26x26x26 = 26^3
2. Because now there are 26 possible letters that can go in the first spot, 25 in the second (assuming the caesar cipher does not map to itself) which means that the last spot only has one possiblilty once the cipher is set.
3. I think that it is impossible to guarantee un-breakability due to the unavoidable risk of brute force (even if it would take forever), but is possible to create a cipher so strong that it satisfies all imagineable needs.

Lecture 42:

1. Since taking the XOR of the key and plaintext is a strong algorithm, all possible keys must be considered as equally likely to be the cipher by an attacker.
2. Because otherwise an attacker may be able to remove some possibilites from the possible XOR combinations, causing this to no longer be a perfect cipher.
3. The sender and receiver must both agree on the key to use. Distributing the key or telling which key to use is difficult to hide from an attacker.

Lecture 43:

1. The downside of this type of encryption is that if the entropy of the cipher matches the entropy of a suspected plaintext language, then shortcuts may be taken to decrease the key-space.

Lecture 44:

1. A one-time pad is a symmetrics because it uses the same key for encryption and decryption.
2. Key distribution is how to securely provide keys to those who need them and key management is how to preserve the safety of a large number of keys and how to make them available as needed.
3. It would depend on the algorithm type. If it was a symmetic algorithm, then it would be possible to decode the message. It would not be possible however to decode the message if an asymmetric algorithm was used.
4. Since each encryption system has very different characteristics from the other, they are not directly comparable. Each has advantages and disadvantages in every situation.

Lecture 45:

1. Block ciphers are more popular because they aid in diffusion by spreading the information our into blocks. In addition, it is difficult to insert symbols without detection.
2. An algorithm is malleable if a trnasformation to the ciphertext can be undone by an inverse transformation on the deciphered plaintext.
3. Homomorphic encryptions are those where a function performed on the plaintext is equivalent to a different algebraic operation performed on the ciphertext.

Lecture 46:

1. The SubBytes step uses confusion to substitute the original characters in a block for new characters from the s-box.
2. Both the ShiftRows and MixColumns steps use diffusion to re-arrange the substituted data so that it ti not in the same order as the plaintext.
3. Decryption takes longer then encryption because the InverseMixColumns step multiplies by a larger fixed arraw than does MixColumns.
4. The plaintext message is broken up into equal-length blocks which undergo multiple rounds of the encryption process each using a different round key derived from the original key.
5. By increasing the number of rounds you increase the number of times that the plaintext message is subsquently encrypted by a new key. Each round will add another layer of abstraction of substitution and transposition to obscure the original meaning.

Lecture 47:

1. Since each block is encrypted individually, identical blocks in the plaintext will appear indentical in the ciphertext.
2. This flaw can be fixed by using a different mode with more diffusion betwene blocks such as Cipher Block Chaining CBC.
3. An attacker observing the ciphertext will be able to see at what point block of the plaintext a change was made because all following blocks will apear changed as well. If the attacker finds two identical ciphertext blocks, then he can deduce that the XOR of those two cipher blocks will be equivalent to the XOR of their respective plaintext blocks, allowing him to derive some information.
4. Key stream generation uses the cipher as a PRNG to create a stream of keys which can be XOR'd with the ciphertext to reproduce the plaintext.

Lecture 48:

1. Personal private keys must be kept secret to ensure authenticity and security.
2. So that messages can be "signed" such that they can be known to be sent from a specific person, allowing authentication
3. They solve the distribution problem because now only one key ever has to be shared with the public, instead of many for each secure channel needed.
4. = {P}k^-1
5. Asymmetric algorithms are much less efficient because they involve identifying a one-way function which was used to encrypt. This involves intensive operations like factoring and exponentiation that requires many more operations than a Symmetric algorithm.

Lecture 49:

1. Yes, the algorithm would still work because the keys in RSA are interchangeable. You would not be able to verify a sender though since their individual private keys are no longer secret.
2. Two large prime numbers are multiplie together, and this is given as the public key. The public key can be used to encrypt any message, but only the original prime factors can be used to decrypt the message.
3. Yes, RSA is breakable but it requires extremely large numbers of mathematical operations to factorize the public key.
4. Because they need a private key to decrypt the publicly encrypted message.
5. Because the message is encrypted with the public key which anyone can do. Only messages excrypted with private keys can be signed and verified from a specific sender.
6. A is sure because B encrypted the message with his own private key.
7. They can read the message by decrypting it with the public key.
8. They can sign the message by encrypting with their private key and then they can send that encrypted message by encrypting with the public key.

Lecture 50:

1. This is necessary so that data can be hashed easily on the fly and so that the time needed to hash the value does not reveal the process taken to hash that value.
2. weak collision resistance is when it is difficult to find two different values that hash to the same value, whereas strong collision resistence is when it is difficult to find any two (including the same original numbers) that hash to the same value.
3. Preimage resistance is when a function makes it difficult to find the original value given a specific hash value. Second preimage resistance is the same thing as weak collision resistance.
4. For a 128 bit hash, the function must be repeated about 2.306x10^19 times to get a repeating hash value
5. A 160 bit hash must be completed 1.511x10^24 times to find a repeating value.
6. Hash functions typically are not used to preserve confidentiality because encryption algorithms are ususally btter suited.
7. Collision resistance is the property by which it is difficult to spoof a message by finding another piece of data that results in the same value after hashing as the file that is trying to be spoofed.
8. A user can first ecrypt the message with their private key, then with the public key so that it is signed and confidential. Then, the user can also send the hash value of the message from a well-known hash function to prove that the original content of the message remains unaltered. The receiver can check this by performing the hashing function on the decoded message and comparing the hash value to the one provided with the coded message. 

Lecture 51:

1. Because this would require S to know R's private key Kr^-1, defeating secrecy.
2. No, because then the same issue as in attempt 2 occurs, where any listener can decrypt using S's public key.
3. No, because this would require the receiver to know S's private key to decrypt Ks.
4. The requirements that you must preserve authentication and confidentiality.

Lecture 52:

1. The eavesdropper would not be able to compute the shared secred because they would still need the orginal factor b to calculate it with g^a mod p.
2. If "a" were discovered, the attacker would need to also know the g^b mod p , or just b to create the shared secret key themselves.
3. Same as question 52.2, except the attacker would need to know g^a mod p or a to calculate the shared secret.
