Lecture 53
1) So that someone can't reuse the same signature for things you didn't authorize.
2)  Public key is expensive to apply but the hash is easy to sign because it's small.
3) That the message was intended for R and was sent from S. Hence, the message should be unforabeable, authentic, noot repudiable, tamperproof, and not resuable.

Lecture 54
1) So that you can be sure that the source is a reliable one.
2) The person will know that it's X is the certifying authority.
3) Whenever the person checks if the hashes are the same, he will know that the values weren't changed.
4) Z would not be able to open the message that is encrypted with X's private key.

Lecture 55
1) The root should be unbiased and with high trust to certify others.
2) In case you get a expired certificate, then there would be no reason to trust it.
3) It would mean that the certificate has been modified.

Lecture 56
1) Things like covert channels, sending messages through RSA.
2) The protocol could fail and possibly allow others to get into the locked object.
3) So that both parties can be sure that the message is locked during the process and still be able to get to the message in any order of unlocking.
4) The attacker would have to XOR the message with A and B's keys.
5) If you have several messages between A and B, you could solve Ka and Kb by XOR the messages together.
6) You would have to XOR a message sent from B twice.
7) There are lots of loopholes that we cannot easily get around.

Lecture 57
1) So we can easily receive and send messages to the web.
2) So we can add security to sensitive information when sending or receiving.
3) A knows B exists, and they each have the other's public key.
4) They are trying to send the message in a secure manner.
5) It should if the only people that have the private keys are their own.
6) An attacker could send the the same encrypted message meant for B to B again so that B unlocks the outer layer. Then the attacker could remove the inner two layers.

Lecture 58
1) You can reduce time and resources by leaving out unnecessary steps.
2) There would be no need to encrypt anything if items could be sent in the clear.

Lecture 59
1) The definition of an attack could vary from different messages.
2) If you can replay an old message into a message between two people it could confuse the parties.
3) An attacker could mess with the integrity of a message by messing it up.
4) The attacker can't use arbitrary encryptions and what attacks they can do.
5) So any party can know that a protocol is happening when it receives a message and attackers won't know.

Lecture 60
1) Not if you want to prevent attacks from potential attackers.
2) The sender requests a key to B and the receiver is entitled to believe that A and B want to communicate.
The sender generates a key and the receiver believes that the key is fresh. The sender believes the key is fresh and 
the receiver believes A wants to communicate with B with a key. THe sender sends a nonce and the receiver blives
B has the key. The sender says A got the message and the receiver believes that A got the message.

Lecture 61
1) A could ask the server for a secret key between other parties.
2) I don't think so.
3) Ask for a nonce for every message you send.

Lecture 62
1) A and B knows that the message is fresh and want to talk to each other.
2) Otway-Rees provides that some messages are fresh and both parties know they want to communicate.
3) You could encrypt a message with everyone else's public key to check if it matches with
any current keys.

Lecture 63
1) So that you can confirm and securely send information through the channel.
2) Beliefs that what the principles are entitled to believe.
3) Beliefs could be that there are two parties that want to communicate to each other.

Lecture 64
1) It's a formal way of presenting belief logic using primitives and rules of inference.
2) Only B can use the key to send a message using a key that both A and B has.
3) If B says X then A is entitled to believe that B believes X.
4) If B has jurisdiction over X then A should believe anything B has to say about X.
5) So you can prevent unnecessary steps in a protocol and connect the goals of the message with the beliefe logic.

Lecture 65
1) The plaintext is just the message and has no belief within it.
2) So that you can gather beliefs to apply inference rules to them.
3) If it exposes suprising assumptions, then it can be used to determine how attackers could attack.

