Connor Lirot
ccl676

Questions Week 5

Lecture 66
1. A package of very good encryption algorithms to be used by whoever wants it
2. He had a strong distrust of the government and believed strongly that everyone had an absolute right to privacy.
3. According to the wikipedia page on PGP, the government had difficulty decrypting messages that used PGP, so yes
4. Because you get tech support if you buy it from someone

Lecture 67
1. Sender creates message M. Sender generates hash of message. Sender signs the hash using his private key and prepends the result to the message. Receiver uses the sender's public key to verify the signature and recover the hash code. Receiver generates a new hash code for M and compares it with the decrypted hash code.
2. Sender generates a message M and a random session key K. M is encrypted using K. K is encrypted using the recipients's public key and prepended to the message. Receiver uses his private key to recover the session key. The session key is used to decrypt the message.
3. First apply the authentication step to the original message, and then apply the confidentiality step to that

Lecture 68
1. Compression, email compatibility, segmentation
2. Saves bandwidth -- why not make the message as small as possible?
3. You don't want the signature to depend upon the compression algorithm.
4. Takes a set of 3 octets and turns it into 4 bytes. Everything can handle ascii, so it works out nicely.
5. Some messages are too long to be sent all at once. Segmentation makes sure everything can handle the message fine

Lecture 69
1. Session keys, public keys, private keys, passphrase-based keys
2. used once and generated for each message
3. encryption algorithm E is used to generate new n-bit key from a previous session key and two n/2-bit blocks generated based on user keystrokes, including keystroke timing. The two blocks are encrypted using E and the previous key, and combined to form the new key.
4. An odd number n of sufficient size is generated and tested for primality. This is repeated until n is prime.
5. It is stored encrypted with a user-supplied passphrase. The entire security of the system depends on your private key being kept private, so you need to protect it well

Lecture 70
1. Depends on how the keys are being managed -- there are different ways to do this. PGP generates an ID likely to be unique for a given user (uses the last 64 bits of the key)
2. timestamp, key ID, pbulic key, private key, user ID
3. timestamp, key ID, public key, user ID
4. after retrieving a message encrypted with Kr, PGP retrieves the receiver's encrypted private key from the private-key ring, using the key ID field in the session key component of th emessage as an index. PGP prompts the uesr for the passphrase to recover the unencrypted private key. PGP recovers the session key and decrypts the message
5. indicates the extent to which PGP trusts that this is a valid public ket for this user
6. owner issues a signed key revocation certificate. Recipients are expected to update their public-key rings

Lecture 71
1. consumer problem - the attacker gets logically between the client and the service and somehow disrupts the communication. producer problem - the attack produces, offers or requests so many services that the server is overwhelmed. Producer problem is more common
2. attacker forges the return address on a number of SYN packets, so the server fills its table with all these half-open connections that are waiting to time-out
3. increasing server's queue size could consume considerable resources. shortening the time-out period would disallow connections by slower clients. filtering suspicious packets might be difficult to implement accurately

Lecturre 72
1. it discards bad packets and lets the good packets go through
2. intrusion detection analyzes traffic patterns and reacts to anomalous patterns. intrusion prevention attempts to prevent intrusions by more aggerssively blocking attempted attacks. assumes that the attacking traffic can be identified
3. over-provisioning the network - have too many servers to be overwhelmed. filtering attack packets - somehow distinguish the attack packets from the regular packets. slow down processing - disadvantages all requestors but perhaps disproportionately disadvantages attackers. speak up solution - request additional traffic from all requestors (assumes attacking bots are already maxed out)

Lecture 73
1. false negative - a genuine attack is not detected. false positive - harmless behavior is mis-classified as an attack. Which one is worse depends on the situation
2. accurate - doesn't report false negatives. precise - doesn't report false positives
3. if you just report everything, you'd be accurate. and if you report nothing, you'd be precise
4. if you have something with 90% accuracy but only 1% of events are bad, you'll end up having a lot of false positives

Lecture 74
1. launched a DoS flooding attack on www1.whitehouse.gov and defaced some webpages with the words "Hacked by Chinese"
2. it used a static seed in its RNG and thus identical lists of IP addresses were generated on each machine, so it couldn't spread very well
3. it's only present in RAM, so if you reboot the machine, it goes away
4. it used a random seed in the RNG so it could spread better

Lectrue 75
1. it exploited the same vulnerability and it had the string "CodeRedII" in its source code
2. the guy who wrote it learned from CodeRed and wanted to be sure that his version spread much better
3. It did nothing but install a mechanism for remote, root-level access to the infected machine (basically made the computer into a zombie that could be awakened at a later date)
4. microsoft saw the exploit and knew how to patch it, but since many people still didn't even care to patch their machines, CodeRed could still work and infect hosts
5. people don't patch their machines, so even if you can fix a vulnerability, it doesn't really mean all that much until people actually get the patch

Lecture 76
1. it provides a standardized process of independent evaluation by expert teams to provide a certified leevel of confidence for security products
2. a set of requirements defining security functionality, a set of assurance requirements needed for establishing the functional requirements, a methodology for determining that the functional requirements are met, and a easure of the evaluation result indicating the trustworthiness of the evaluated system
3. because there aren't as many experts in cryptology and it's very important
4. 1 - basic security, at least one approved algorithm/function. 2 - improved physical security, tamper-evident packaging. 3 - strong tamper-resistance and countermeasures. 4 - complete envelope of protection including immediate zeroing of keys upon tampering.

Lecture 77
1. secure systems evaluation criteria widely adopted around the world. set of documents for applying the criteria
2. evaluations by one signing country are respected by all of the others to a certain level
3. so countries can tweak the CC to their own liking
4. protection profile is a description of a family of products in terms of threats, environmental issues and assumptions, security objectives, and requirements of the CC. security target is a document that contains the security requirements of a product to be evaluated (TOE), and specifies the measures offered by the product to meet those requirements. May match with a protection profile.

Lecture 78
1. goal was to bill citizens according to how much trash they threw out
2. assets are physical things involved, environmental assumptoins are things we can assume to be constant for the situation, threats are things we think might go wrong, and organizational security policies are policies we will use to solve our problems
3. if every row has at least one x in it, that means we took care of it with one of our policies and so we're good

Lecture 79
1. goal is to manage user access privileges stored in directory services
2. the security target is an actual product so we're evaluating whether it will work or not

Lecture 80
1. they basically say how rigorous the evaluation was
2. governments of the countries
3. they'll have different opinions on what is required and won't necessarily want to trust each other on the most top secret/important stuff
4. no because the tests must be performed by an independent organizsation accredited to perform CC testing
5. because you need to test the code, not just trust that it works