Lecture 1
1. What uses of the term “security” are relevant to your everyday life?

	Personal Security, Physical security, Corporate security, National security,
	Operations security, Personnel security, Communication security, Computer 
	Security, Network security, System Security. 

2. What do these have in common?

	The general idea of security is the protection of assets against threats.
	However in different situations the assets and threats differ. 

3. Have you been a victim of lax security?

	Yes, lax computer security led to corruption of my data. 

4. What is the likelihood that your laptop is infected? How did you decide?

	Not likely. This is because I do not see any noticeable performance issues, 
	and do not download from non-trusted sources. I would not rule it out, 
	however. 

5. What security measures do you employ on your laptop?

	I do not download from non trusted sources.

6. Do you think they are probably effective? 

	Probably not, but I do not feel like the any other security measures would 
	be more trouble than they’re worth. 

7. Consider the quote from the FBI official on slide 10. Do you think it overstates the case? Justify your answer. 

	They are sensationalizing it a bit with “challenge our country’s very existence”,
	but the amount of security leaks could be a lot better.


8. What is the importance in learning about computer security?

	To protect against threats

Lecture 2
1. Consider the five reasons given why security is hard. Can you think of 
other factors? 

	Since technology is constantly improving security must do so as well.	

2. Is there a systematic way to enumerate the “bad things” that might happen
to a program? Why or why not? 

	No there is not, because it’s very very difficult to prove that something 
	will never happen: there are a multitude - almost infinite number of 
	ways for something to happen.

3. Explain the asymmetry between the defender and attacker in security.

	While the defender has to find all exploitable vulnerabilities, the 
	attacker only needs to find one. 

4. Examine the quotes from Morris and Chang. Do you agree? Why or why not?

	Yes, I believe that there are too many points of vulnerability on a 
	network to ever have a completely secure system. It’s a risk you 
	have to take when using a computer that connects to others. 

5. Explain the statement on slide 8 that a tradeoff is typically required.

	High level security is possible, but requires added burdens on the computer
	or user. It’s necessary to determine how much you are willing to give up
	for a certain level of security.

Lecture 3

1. Deﬁne “risk”?
	
	Risk is the possibility that a particular threat will adversely impact an
	information system by exploiting a particular vulnerability. 

2. Do you agree that software security is about managing risk?

	Yes

3. Name and explain a risk you accept, one you avoid, one you mitigate, and
one you transfer?

	Accept: Computer without antivirus software - I believe the cost is too
		great for this particular risk. 
	Avoid: I avoid accessing my bank account on computers I do not trust.
	Mitigate: Put a case around my phone to reduce the damage if I drop it.
	Transfer: Insurance for damages if I crash my car. 

4. Evaluate annualized loss expectancy as a risk management tool.

	It is a good way to estimate how money could be spent: however does not
	give a complete picture in some cases.

5. List some factors relevant to rational risk assessment.	The cost of the security measure, how likely the risk is to occur, the 
	amount of loss the risk would induce. 

Lecture 4

1. Explain the key distinction between the lists on slides 2 and 3.

	Slide 2 contained the policies that security tries to achieve, while
	slide 3 contained examples of different mechanisms for achieving those
	policies.

2. Consider your use of computing in your personal life. Which is most important: 
confidentiality, integrity, availability? Justify your answer.

	I would say availability: I use computers constantly and expect speedy response 	times from my devices. 	

3. What does it mean “to group and categorize data”?

	To distinguish between different types of data by how important they are.

4. Why might authorizations change over time?

	People may lose or gain access to different pieces of data

5. Some of the availability questions seem to relate more to reliability than to
security. How are the two related? 

	Availability requires reliability in that you need to have consistent access
	to the data you require.

6. In what contexts would authentication and non-repudiation be considered important?

	Transactions of money and goods, such as a store’s website. 

Lecture 5

1. Describe a possible metapolicy for a cell phone network? A military database?

	A cell phone network would be concerned with availability (you can always
	have access to it to make calls) and a military database is concerned with
	authentication, so that sensitive information is not seen by the wrong 
	people. 

2. Why do you need a policy if you have a metapolicy?

	You need the policy as a mechanism to achieve the metapolicy. 

3. Give three possible rules within a policy concerning students’ academic records

	Faculty/staff may not use student SSNs in documents/files/postings
	Documents containing SSNs must be destroyed unless deemed necessary
	Documents containing SSNs and deemed necessary for retention must be kept
	in secure storage. 

4. Could stakeholders’ interest conflict in a policy? Give an example.

	Yes
	For the academic records: stakeholders such as a student could want to 
	compromise the Integrity of data for their own benefits. 

5. For the example given involving student SSNs, state the likely metapolicy

	Authentication - so that the wrong people don’t have access to people’s 
	SSNs

6. Explain the statement: “If you don’t understand the metapolicy, it becomes 
difficult to justify and evaluate the policy. 

	If you don’t understand the metapolicy, the rules for the policy seem 
	arbitrary and insignificant to you.

Lecture 6

1. Why is military security mainly about confidentiality? Are there also aspects of
integrity and availability?

	Because the biggest risk is having information in the hands of the wrong 
	people. There are of course aspects of integrity and availability (the 
	data doesn’t get corrupted and is still accessible) but compromising 
	those policies do not hold as big of a consequence. 

2. Describe the major threat in our MLS thought experiment.
	
	Confidentiality would be broken - someone sees information that is not 
	cleared for it. 

3. Why do you think the proviso is there?

	Because this system is not really useful in normal circumstances, since we
	are still worried about Integrity and do not want corrupted data.

4. Explain the form of the labels we’re using.

	There are 2 parts to the label:
	first is a linearly ordered set {Unclassified…Top Secret)
	the second part is a set of “need to know” categories {crypto…Personnel}
	
5. Why do you suppose we’re not concerned with how the labels get there?

	The labels are incommutable

6. Rank the facts listed on slide 6 by sensitivity. 

	From lowest to highest:
	1. The cafeteria is serving chopped beef on toast today
	2. The base softball team has a game tomorrow at 3pm
	3. Col Jones just got a raise
	4. Col Smith didn’t get a raise
	5. The British have broken the Enigma Codes
	6. The Normandy invasion is scheduled for June 6
		

7. Invent labels for documents containing each of those facts. 

	1. Unclassified, {Civilian}
	2. Unclassified, {Civilian}
	3. Confidential, {Personnel}
	4. Confidential, {Personnel}
	5. Top Secret, {Crypto, War}
	6. Top Secret, {War}	

8. Justify the rules for “mixed” documents.

	The important thing is that people don’t read documents higher than their own
	security level. If mixed documents levels were determined by the lowest level
	category, it would violate this rule. 

Lecture 7. 
1. Document labels are stamped on the outside. How are “labels” affixed to humans?
	
	People are given certain clearance levels for levels of documents. 

2. Explain the difference in semantics of labels for documents and labels for humans.

	Documents’ labels indicate the sensitivity of the contained information, while
	labels on humans indicate classes of information that person is authorized 
	to access. 

3. In the context of computers what do you think are the analogues of docu- ments? Of humans?

	Computer users would be the humans, files would be the documents. 

4. Explain why the Principle of Least Privilege makes sense.

	There is less of a chance for information to be leaked, and it is not necessary.

5. For each of the pairs of labels on slide 6, explain why the answers in the third column do or do not make sense.
  
  1. Yes it makes sense, because the level of security is lower for the file. 
	2. Yes, he should not have access to the document because he is not cleared
	for top secret
	3. Yes, Secret, Nuclear is cleared for unclassified, no category. 

Lecture 8:

1. Why do you think we introduced the vocabulary terms: objects, subjects, actions?

	To formalize the rules for MLS

2. Prove that dominates is a partial order (reflexive, transitive, antisymmetric).

	L1 > L2
	S2 Superset of S1

3. Show that dominates is not a total order.

	It is possible for L1 > L2, but S2 is not a superset of S1 or vice versa. 
	In that case, they do not dominate each other. 

4. What would have to be true for two labels to dominate each other?

	L1 > L2 
	and 
	S2 is a Superset of S1

5. State informally what the the Simple Security property says.

	If the Subject dominates the Object or is equal to it, it can be granted 
	read access.

6. Explain why it’s “only if” and not “if and only if.”

	This is a necessary condition for read access, but does not guarantee access

Lecture 9

1. Why isn’t Simple Security enough to ensure confidentiality?

	People could write to documents below their level and leak information

2. Why do we need constraints on write access?

	So that information does not flow to lower levels 

3. What is it about computers, as opposed to human beings, that makes that particularly important?

	It is trivial to copy entire files 

4. State informally what the *-Property says.

	To be granted write access to an object, the subject’s level must be less than
	or equal to the object. 

5. What must be true for a subject to have both read and write access to an object?

	The subject’s Level and labels have to be exactly the same. 

6. How could we deal with the problem that the General(topsecret)can’t send orders to the private (Unclassified)?

	We could change the levels of objects 

7. Isn’t it a problem that a corporal can overwrite the war plan? Suggest how we might deal with that.

	We could put the war plan in its own category

Lecture 10:

1. Evaluate changing a subject’s level(up or down) in light of weak tranquility.

	That would invalidate weak tranquility 

2. Why not just use strong tranquility all the time?

	This is not reasonable for real life scenarios: it’s necessary to be more 
	flexible. 

3. Explain why lowering the level of an object may be dangerous.

	Information is flowing down to a lower level. 

4. Explain what conditions must hold for a downgrade (lowering object level) to be secure.

If there is no residual content of high-level information.

Lecture 11:

1. Suppose you wanted to build a (library) system in which all subjects had read access to 
all files, but write access to none of them. What levels could you give to subjects and objects?

	Subjects are all a higher level than all of the objects. 

2. Why wouldn’t you usually build an access control matrix for a BLP system?

	It’s a waste of space: simpler to simply compute the permission when it’s needed. 
  
Lecture 12:

1. Suppose you had hierarchical levels L, H with L < H, but only had one category A. Draw the 
lattice. (Use your keyboard and editor to draw it; it doesn’t have to be fancy.)

	H, {A} <-  H, {}
	   ^   ^     ^
	   |     \   |
	L, {A} <- L, {}

2. Given any two labels in a BLP system, what is the algorithm for finding their LUB and GLB?

	Least: There are no arrows pointing to it
	Greatest: There are no arrows going away from it

3. Explain why upward flow in the lattice really is the metapolicy for BLP.

  It’s the policy of Confidentiality, so that information does not leak down to lower
	levels
  
Lecture 13

1. Explain how the BLP rules are supposed to enforce the metapolicy in the example on slide 1.

	It enforces the metapolicy by ensuring that information cannot travel down, by 
	controlling the reads and writes on objects.

2. Argue that the READ and WRITE operations given satisfy BLP.

	READ makes sure that information is only read by subjects with high enough clearance, 
	WRITE makes sure that the information only flows upwards, so people with low clearance
	can’t have access to information. 

3. Argue that the CREATE and DESTROY operations given satisfy BLP.

	Information is never moved, and access is never changed. 

4. What has to be true for the covert channel on slide 5 to work?

	Create has to fail if there is already that object created. 

5. Why is the DESTROY statement there?

	So that more information can be sent.	

6. Are the contents of any files different in the two paths?

	No

7. Why does SL do the same thing in both cases? Must it?

	Yes, because it has no idea what SH is doing in both cases. 

8. Why does SH do different things? Must it?

	It does different things to signal differently. It must do this to give information. 

9. Justify the statement on slide 7 that begins: “If SL ever sees...”

  It does not change the policy, but the metapolicy, because it allows a higher level
	user to give information to a lower level one. 
  
Lecture 14

1. Explain why “two human users talking over coffee is not a covert channel.”

	Because this is a direct way for information to be transmitted. There is no checking
	states

2. Is the following a covert channel? Why or why not?
          Send 0       |      Send 1   
    ------------------------------------------
     Write (SH, F0, 0) | Write (SH, F0, 1) 
	       Read (SL, F0) | Read (SL, F0)

	No, they are communicating through normal means.

3. Where does the bit of information transmitted “reside” in Covert Channel #1?

	In whether or not S1 created an object	

4. In Covert Channel #2?

	Whether p ran its whole time slice or stopped early

5. In Covert Channel #3?

	The position of the disk head

6. In Covert Channel #4?

	If h is even or odd

7. Why might a termination channel have low bandwidth?

	It is expensive to keep restarting a process

8. What would have to be true to implement a power channel? 

	A way to measure how much power was consumed 

9. For what sort of devices might power channels arise?

Devices of very variable power levels

Lecture 15
1. Explain why covert channels, while appearing to have such a low band- width, can 
potentially be very serious threats.

	There is no real cap on the amount of information that can be transmitted, so it’s 
	still a serious information leak. 

2. Why would it be infeasible to eliminate every potential covert channel?

	It’s very improbable of finding every single covert channel. 

3. If detected, how could one respond appropriately to a covert channel?

	Restrict the modification rights of one of the processes. 

4. Describe a scenario in which a covert storage channel exists.

	The sender and receiver have some access to a shared object

5. Describe how this covert storage channel can be utilized by the sender and receiver.

  The sender can modify the object, and the receiver can view that change. 
  
Lecture 16
1. Why wouldn’t the “create” operation have an R in the SRMM for the “file existence” attribute?

If the operation can’t see if the create worked or not, it would just be a M

2. Why does an R and M in the same row of an SRMM table indicate a poten- tial channel?

	2 processes could communicate through that, since one could modify and the other could 
	see that modification. 

3. If an R and M are in the same column of an SRMM table, does this also indicate a potential 
   covert channel? Why or why not?

	No, because those are different channels 

4. Why would anyone want to go through the trouble to create an SRMM table?

	To detect possible areas where a covert channel could exist. 
