Name: Jacob Harvey
EID: jlh5585
CS Login: jlharv
Email: jacoblharvey@utexas.edu

CS361 Questions: Week 3
The questions marked with a dagger (†) require external research and may be more
extensive and time consuming. You don’t have to do them for the assignment but,
but do them to increase your competency in the class.
Lecture 34
1. Why is it impossible to transmit a signal over a channel at an average rate
greater than C/h?
It's impossible to beat perfect transmission. C is the amount able to be transmitted, while h is the entropy. Both are limits.

2. How can increasing the redundancy of the coding scheme increase the reliability
of transmitting a message over a noisy channel?
By transmitting the message over and over, the message will eventually go through

Lecture 35
1. If we want to transmit a sequence of the digits 0-9. According to the zeroorder
model, what is the entropy of the language?
-log(1/10)
2. What are reasons why computing the entropy of a natural language is difficult?
It's usually less than you expect. Vowels are more common than consonants. 
3. Explain the difference between zero, first, second and third-order models.
Zero is predicting each letter is has the same frequency, first actually takes in a letter's frequency in general,
the second order predicts what letters follow every other letter, The third order uses trigrams, or triplets of letters.
Lecture 36
1. Why are prior probabilities sometimes impossible to compute?
We have no clue how much the other subject knows.
2. Why is the information content of a message relative to the state of knowledge
of an observer?
You only need to provide as much information as the observers needs
3. Explain the relationship between entropy and redundancy.
Higher the entropy, less redundancy. 
Lecture 37
1. List your observations along with their relevance to cryptography about
Captain Kidd’s encrypted message.
4, 8, 5, ),( appear a lot maybe they relate to common characters
It's probably English
If it's directions, maybe directional words
Probably a simple substitution algorithm 
2. Explain why a key may be optional for the processes of encryption or decryption.
Sometimes the keys are the same
3. What effect does encrypting a file have on its information content?
Nothing
4. How can redundancy in the source give clues to the decoding process?
Gives patterns, thus information about the encryption. Could relate to common characters in the plaintext
CS361 Questions: Week 3 2
Lecture 38
1. Rewrite the following in its simplest form: D(E(D(E(P)))).
P
2. Rewrite the following in its simplest form: D(E(E(P,KE),KE),KD).

E(P,KE)
3. Why might a cryptanalyst want to recognize patterns in encrypted messages?

Gives hints, if you guess most common characters, might be able to find a relationship

4. How might properties of language be of use to a cryptanalyst?

Helps find the key by looking for common properties. 

Lecture 39
1. Explain why an encryption algorithm, while breakable, may not be feasible
to break?

Might take a year or two. Not useful
2. Why, given a small number of plaintext/ciphertext pairs encrypted under
key K, can K be recovered by exhausteive search in an expected time on the
order of 2n−1 operations?

You can find matches, try and get the key K. If you apply K to the plaintext pairs and get the ciphertext pairs, it's probably the key. 
3. Explain why substution and transposition are both important in ciphers.

To create a ciphertext by using known operations that can be reversed to decipher the text
4. Explain the difference between confusion and diffusion.

Diffusion is spreading out the information in the plaintext (transposition), while confusion is transforming the information in the plaintext (substitution).
5. Is confusion or diffusion better for encryption?

Both are equally important
Lecture 40
1. What is the difference between monoalphabetic and polyalphabetic substitution?

Monoalphabetic cipher subsitututes each character with another throughout the text, while the poly method takes into account where the character is in the text.
2. What is the key in a simple substitution cipher?

The mapping of character c->c'
3. Why are there k! mappings from plaintext to ciphertext alphabets in simple
substitution?

Each character can be mapped to only one other character (k possiblities). That character can't be used anymore. Now there are (k-1) possibilities
4. What is the key in the Caesar Cipher example?

shift 2 up
5. What is the size of the keyspace in the Caesar Cipher example?

26
6. Is the Caesar Cipher algorithm strong?

No
7. What is the corresponding decryption algorithm to the Vigenere ciphertext
example?

Find the ciphertext in the row of the key. The column is the plaintext
CS361 Questions: Week 3 3
Lecture 41
1. Why are there 17576 possible decryptions for the “xyy” encoding on slide
3?

26^3=17,576. Each character could be one of 26 posssiblities, if you had no other information to use
2. Why is the search space for question 2 on slide 3 reduced by a factor of 27?

No transposing took place. The y's map to the same thing then.
3. Do you think a perfect cipher is possible? Why or why not?

Given infinity amount of time and data, then no. There will always be some algorithm that will decrypt the ciphertext
Lecture 42
1. Explain why the one-time pad offers perfect encryption.

The key is totally random, and thus, the ciphertext is also totally random.
2. Why is it important that the key in a one-time pad be random?

If you knew any patterns, you could eliminate part of the plaintext possibilities
3. Explain the key distribution problem.

There's no way to send the receiver the key securely
Lecture 43
1. What is a downside to using encryption by transposition?

Since it only moves the characters, the frequency of characters remains the same. Important information
Lecture 44
1. Is a one-time pad a symmetric or asymmetric algorithm?

symmetric, need same key to decrypt and decrypt
2. Describe the difference between key distribution and key management.

Distribution is sending the key to the receiver. Management is matching up the keys correctly 
3. If someone gets a hold of Ks, can he or she decrypt S’s encrypted messages?
Why or why not?

If it's asymmetric then no. Only the host that generated Ks can decrypt it. 
4. Are symmetric encryption systems or public key systems better?

Depends on the situation. If there are a lot of users, then yes. Requires less keys to be exchanged. 
Lecture 45
1. Why do you suppose most modern symmetric encryption algorithms are
block ciphers?
CPU's and chaches never pull just one bit from memory. Computers work with blocks, much more efficient. Computer's store characters as blocks
2. What is the significance of malleability?
If you can change the ciphertext and have an affect on the plaintext that's noticeable.
3. What is the significance of homomorphic encryption?
They are malleable by design. 
CS361 Questions: Week 3 4
Lecture 46
1. Which of the 4 steps in AES uses confusion and how is it done?
subBytes, mixColumn, addRoundKey
2. Which of the 4 steps in AES uses diffusion and how is it done?
shiftRows, 0
3. Why does decryption in AES take longer than encryption?
mixColumn requires multiply by the inverse of the encrypting array. Hard to inverse numbers
4. Describe the use of blocks and rounds in AES.
Each round manipulates one block. Block size can vary. Each round changes the block
5. Why would one want to increase the total number of Rounds in AES?
Make it more random and harder to break
Lecture 47
1. What is a disadvantage in using ECB mode?
All of the blocks are going to be identical, since all blocks are undergoing same transformation
2. How can this flaw be fixed?
Make identical blocks in the plaintext undergoe different transformation. 
3. What are potential weaknesses of CBC?
They can encrypt with same text but with some changes, and then see where the changes started to tell where similiar blocks are
If you have two identical ciphertext blocks, can XOR together to get information 
4. How is key stream generation different from standard block encryption
Use encryption algorithm as a PSNG 
Lecture 48
1. For public key systems, what must be kept secret in order to ensure secrecy?
The private key
2. Why are one-way functions critical to public key systems?
Easy to do, but difficult to inverse. Hard to undo the encryption 
3. How do public key systems largely solve the key distribution problem?
The public key can be shared with no risk to confidentiality 
4. Simplify the following according to RSA rules: {{{P}K−1}K}K−1.
(P)K-1
5. Compare the efficiency of asymmetric algorithms and symmetric algorithms.
asymmetric algorithms are a lot less efficient than symmetric encryption. Especially computing the keys. 
Lecture 49
1. If one generated new RSA keys and switched the public and private keys,
would the algorithm still work? Why or why not?
Yes it would. Only algorythm to do this
2. Explain the role of prime numbers in RSA.
To make encryption a one-way function. Knapsack problem 
3. Is RSA breakable?
Yes, it's possible to find the encryption key given enough time
4. Why can no one intercepting {M}Ka read the message?
They would need A's private key
CS361 Questions: Week 3 5
5. Why can’t A be sure {M}Ka came from B?
No way to prove it came from B. Anyone could encrypt with A's public key
6. Why is A sure {M}K−1 b originated with B?

Only b has b's private key
7. How can someone intercepting {M}K−1b read the message?

B's public key is public. Anyone can decrypt
8. How can B ensure authentication as well as confidentiality when sending a
message to A?

By encrypting the message B's private key, and then with A's public key
Lecture 50
1. Why is it necessary for a hash function to be easy to compute for any given
data?
Needs to be fast and work on large data sets
2. What is the key difference between strong and weak collision resistance of
a hash function.
Weak collision creates the same hash value everytime for a message m. Strong collision creates a different value for message m
3. What is the difference between preimage resistance and second preimage
resistance?
It's hard to find a matching answer
4. What are the implications of the birthday attack on a 128 bit hash value?
You'll ahvea  colliision on average 1.25* squrt(128). Only 2^128 possible values 
5. What are the implications of the birthday attack on a 160 bit hash value?
Decreases the change of collision by a 2^x, 
6. Why aren’t cryptographic hash functions used for confidentiality?
IF you have the hash function, you can change the message
7. What attribute of cryptographic hash functions ensures that message M is
bound to H(M), and therefore tamper-resistant?
IF you change one bit, the whole hash changes
8. Using RSA and a cryptographic hash function, how can B securely send a
message to A and guarantee both confidentiality and integrity?
encrypt with hash, then encrypt again with B's private key which A has. hash ensures integrity, priv key ensures confidentiality
Lecture 51
1. For key exchange, if S wants to send key K to R, can S send the following
No, you don't have R's private key. And anyone with R's public key can decrypt it and then decrypt S's
famessage: {{K}KS−1}K−1R? Why or why not?
2. In the third attempt at key exchange on slide 5, could S have done the encryptions
in the other order? Why or why not?
3. Is {{{K}KS−1}KR}KS equivalent to {{K}K−1S}KR?
4. What are the requirements of key exchange and why?
CS361 Questions: Week 3 6
Lecture 52
1. What would happen if g, p and gamodp were known by an eavesdropper
listening in on a Diffie-Hellman exchange?
Nothing, they need to know A or B to listen

2. What would happen if a were discovered by an eavesdropper listening in on
a Diffie-Hellman exchange?

They could then find gb mod p by listening, since it's unencrypted, and from that, get the key
3. What would happen if b were discovered by an eavesdropper listening in on
a Diffie-Hellman exchange?
Same thing as above. 