Name: Eric Lane
EID: el9297
CS Login: elane
Email: e.lane@utexas.edu

Questions-Week4

Lecture 53:
	1)	An outside party could use the key to infiltrate the system.
	2)	Public key encryption is expensive to apply.
	3)	The message will have the desired properties.
Lecture 54:
	1)	It vouches for the authenticity of the signature.
	2)	It's part of the certification that the message was sent by X
	3)	It shows who the message was intended for and who it comes from.
	4)	It would have to sign its private key, which would be caught as 
		untrustworthy.
Lecture 55:
	1)	The root is where the initial "vouching" for a sender's trustworthiness
		occurs. The root is an unimpeachable authority.
	2)	A sender's validity can expire.
	3)	It would mean the message was tampered with and insecure.
Lecture 56:
	2)	The security of a message can be breached.
	3)	You have to be able to send and receive a message.
	4)	If an attacker records all the messages, they can XOR 1 & 2.
	5)	XOR 2 & 3
	6)	XOR 1 & 2
	7)	You have to think of how they can be exploited while you design them, 
		and also think about how they can be exploited when you finish one.
Lecture 57:
	1)	The internet is vast, and there needs to be processes in place to
		regulate it.
	2)	The internet is open and vulnerable. You need protocols to ensure the
		basic aspects of computer security like authentication.
	3)	A & B both already have keys and they each have a version of the other
		public key.
	4)	Both parties can securely send information to each other.
	5)	It appears so.
	6)	An attacker can receive a new message from B, and then run the protocol
		again to extract the original K.
Lecture 58:
	1)	It opens the protocol to vulnerabilities, and also decreased performance.
	2)	Performance hits, and unnecessary levels of encryption can cancel each 
		other out.
Lecture 59:
	1)	Attacks are varied and can exploit many different vulnerabilities,
		as well as go after different types of information within a message.
	2)	An attacker can use a message sequence to gain information about
		the protocol.
	3)	An attack is not always successful.
	4)	Assume an attacker has access to all traffic. However, an attacker can't
		just arbitrarily come up with info, it needs previous data.
	5)	It makes interleaving attacks more difficult.
Lecture 60:
	1)	No, you need to know that a message is fresh.
Lecture 61:
	1)	No, because A's key is now different.
	2)	Yes, you assume a key has a given strength, but if the key is broken
		the whole protocol is compromised.
	3)	Make the key more secure
Lecture 62:
	1)	Authentication and confidentiality.
	2)	They both seem to guarantee about the same thing.
Lecture 63:
	1)	You want to prove that a protocol is correct, so you know it's secure.
	2)	A belief logic helps to prove the correctness of a protocol.
	3)	Believing that the program is executing as expected.
Lecture 64:
	1)	A set of symbols that represents different inferences.
	2)	The receiver can understand what message was sent.
	3)	The message should be fresh.
	4)	The sender should be allowed to send the message.
	5)	One purpose of idealization is to omit parts of the message that do not 
        contribute to the beliefs of the recipients.
Lecture 65:
	1)	It symbolically proves the correctness of a protocol, and shows it is 
		correct for all cases.	
	2)	The point of idealization is simplification.
	3)	When you make assumptions, it opens your protocol to vulnerabilities.
		By exposing those 