Name: Joel Henning
EID: jsh2689
CS ID: joelhenn
Email: joel_henning@utexas.edu


Lecture 53:

1. It is important for a digital signature to be non reusable because that way no one will be able to take the signature and use it themselves to imitate the user.

2. The hash is usually signed because public key encryption is expensive, and the message can be arbitrarily long. The hash will be a fixed length so its cheaper and easier to sign that.

3. The assurances that R gains are the message is unforgeable because K's private key is uses, its authentic because a third party can verify it. It has no repudiation, and is tamperproof and non reusable as well.


Lecture 54:

1. It is important to have certificate authorities to independently verify users and create trust in online exchanges.

2. X signed the hash of the first message with its private key to sign it so that Z can verify that it came from Y.

3. Its necessary to have a hash of Y and Ky because then Z can take Y and Ky it recieves in the message and hash it together to see if that matches the hash it receives in the message. If they are the same then that means that Y and Ky were not changed at all when the message was sent.

4. If Z had a public key for X but it was not trustworthy then Z may not be able to access the message or may not trust that the message was actually sent from X.


Lecture 55:

1. At the root of a chain of trust is some unimpeachable authority that all the subjects trust.

2. X.509 includes a "validity interval" because the certificate is only valid for a certain amount of time so that it can not be continuously used.

3. If the hash and the received value did not match, then the signature is not correct and the certificate is invalid.


Lecture 56:

1.  One protocol previously discussed was the Diffie-Hellman Key exchange protocol that is a way to exchange keys on an unsecure network.  

2. If one step of the protocol is ignored the protocol will fall apart and won't be useful.

3. Ciphers must commute in order to accomplish the task in slide 4 because that way the locks can be unlocked with the appropriate key. If they didn't commute then the encrypted message could not be decrypted.

4. An attacker can extract M from the protocol in slide 6 by getting the three messages can XOR them together to get M.

5. An attacker can extract M from the protocol in slide 6 by getting the three messages can XOR them together to get Ka.

6. An attacker can extract M from the protocol in slide 6 by getting the three messages can XOR them together to get Kb.

7. Cryptographic protocols are easy to get wrong because they can be wrong in very suble ways, while they are hard to design because you have to try and get the protocols to cover all the weak spots.


Lecture 57:

1. Protocols are important in the context of the internet because most people use the internet to communicate with people for various reasons.

2. Cryptographic protocols are important in the context of the internet because it is a wild west type of environment in which people need encryption to help protect their messages from other people.

3. The assumptions are that there is a public key infrastructure in place and that A and B have each other's public key.

4. The goals of the protocol in slide 6 is for A to share with B a secret key K and that each party is authenticated to the other.

5. The goals of the protocol in slide 6 are satisfied because A will see that the message it gets back is signed with B's private key. And B will see that the message it gets from A is signed with A's pribate key which only A has so that shows that it comes from A.

6. The protocol has a flaw in it and its that everyone should have A and B's public key. Also if either A or B's private keys were compromised in either way, the messages could be forged and A or B could be tricked. 


Lecture 58:

1. Its important to know if a protocol includes unnecessary steps or messages because there could be flaws in those steps that could threaten the protocol. Its better to clean up the protocol and take out unnecessary steps to make the protocol more secure.

2. Its important to know if a protocol encrypts items that could be sent in the clear because encrypting the item when it doesn't need to be is unefficient and could make the protocol slower.


Lecture 59:

1. Its difficult to answer what constitutes an attack on a cryptographic protocol because some protocol may have flaws that are not known, while there are also so many attacks and possible attacks for many protocols.

2. The potential dangers of a replay attack is that an attack may be able to get a hold of messages that it can use any other time it chooses. Possibly tricking potential subjects that think it is a legitimate party.

3. There are attacks where a user gains no secret information because a message that is intercepted that contains no secret information, and that is just useless talk between the parties.

4. The restrictions imposed on the attacker is that the attacker will not know what kind of protocol is being used, and that it will not know what parties are involved. The attacker will only know the party that sent the message. Attackers can't also generate message with keys it doesn't have. 

5. Its important that protocols are asynchronous so that the parties know what each message that they receive mean, yet they should not know the protocol. Also the parties should not know every other party that is involved.


Lecture 60:

1. No it would not work without nonces because then A and B would not know if the message is fresh or just a replay from an earlier message.

2. For step 1, A is saying that it wants to send B a message with a nonce. S is entitled to believe that the message is genuine. Step 2 says S returns the message to A with the nonce, and the encrpyted message that only A and S can decrypt and A believes S. For step 3 A sends the message to B encrypted so that only A and B can access the message. B sends a message back to A then with its encrypted key.  After step 3 A and B do not believe each other, or that either has the key.


Lecture 61:

1.If A's key were later changed after having Kas compromised, A could still be impersonated because the way that S knows if a message is actually coming from A is because they share a key.

2. It is fair to ask the question of a key being broken because it could cause the protocol to be insecure and broken.

3. One way to address these flaws would be to have all the subjects to change their private shared keys to make sure that even if a key is compromised, it will be changed.


Lecture 62:

1. Otway-Rees provides the guarantees that A and B will both be authenticated with each other so that A and B know that they are hopefully talking to each other.

2. There are no guarantees that N-S provide that O-R does not.

3. One way to fix the protocol is to change up A and B's private keys so that C has a hard time figuring out the private key.


Lecture 63:

1. Verification of protocols is important because protocols have been notoriously difficult to get correct, and flaws have been discovered in protocols published many years before. Its important to be able to try and verify if the protocols are correct or not.

2. Belief logic is a formal system for reasing about beliefs. NAy logic consists of a set of logical oeprators and rules of inference.

3. Beliefs come from the users of a program, as well as any objects that are being interacted with in the program by different users.


Lecture 64:

1. Modal logic is a propositional and predicate logic that is extended to include operators that qualify a statement

2. If A believes that A shared K with B and A sees X encrypted with K then A believes that B said X. This is a way for A to believe that the message it sees is sent by B.

3. If A believes that the message X is fresh and that B once said X then A believes that B believes X. This means that A and B also believe X because A believes that X is fresh and new and that B once sent  If B once said something, then A believes it.

4. If A believes that B has jurisdiction over X and A believes B believes X then A believes X. This means that if B has jurisdiction over X, then A believes that X. If you here something from an expert then you tend to believe it.

5. Idealization is trying to turn the message sent into its intended semantics. One purpose of this is to omit parts of the message that do not contribute to the beliefs of the recipients and this tries and narrows the message down. All plaintext is omitted since it can be forged.


Lecture 65:

1. Plaintext is omitted because it can be forged by any party using the communication network. It does not help the system of beliefs at all.

2. Beliefs that happen later on in the protocol are important to know because it could show you assumptions that happen later on in the protocol that could affect the outcome before you get there. This is all a way to clean up the belief logic of the protocol.

3. When you do the BAN proof of a protocol, it is able to break down the belief system enough so that you can see what belief assumptions of the protocol. This is so that you can see what beliefs are the basis for the protocol system. This is a way to clean up some of the assumptions in the protocol.