Name: Melanie O'Neal
EID: mfo264
CS Login: onealm
Email: melanie_oneal@yahoo.com

Lecture 66:
	1. Standing for Pretty Good Privacy, PGP is a strong encryption scheme that
	is freely available and not controlled by a government.
	2. He was motivated by the need for an easy to use and accessible strong
	encryption.
	3. PGP is extremely secure.
	4. Some companies won't use free ware. They want someone to be able to call
	for support.
	
Lecture 67:
	1. A sender creates a message and generates a hash for it. The sender then
	signs the hash with their private key and sticks it to the front of the 
	message. The receiver can then use the sender's public key to get the hash.
	The receiver then generates a new hash code for the message and compares 
	it to the decryption.
	2. A sender creates a message and encrypts it with a random session key. 
	The key is then encrypted as well with the receiver's public key and stuck
	onto the front of the message. The receiver can then use their private key
	to get the session key which can decrypt the message.
	3. To get both authentication and confidentiality, both steps can be 
	applied, first, the authentication step, then the confidentiality step.
	
Lecture 68:
	1. Compression, email compatibility, and segmentation.
	2. Compression reduces redundancy, which strengthens encryption.
	3. Signing is done before compression so that the signature doesn't depend
	on the compression algorithm.
	4. radix-64 is an encoding method which maps groups of three octets into 
	four ASCII characters. It's used so that emails systems won't choke on
	certain bit strings they would interpret as control commands.
	5. Segmentation is needed because email systems often restrict message
	length.
	
Lecture 69:
	1. One-time session symmetric keys, public keys, private keys, and 
	passphrase-based symmetric keys.
	2. Session keys can only be used once.
	3. Session keys are generated by encrypting two blocks generated based on
	user keystrokes by an encryption algorithm and the previous session key.
	4. RSA keys are generated by testing big enough odd numbers that are 
	randomly generated for being prime.
	5. Passphrases are chosen for encrypting private keys. Whenever a user
	wants to get the private key, they have to give the passphrase.
	
Lecture 70:
	1. An ID is generated to be used by the receiver to verify they have that
	key.
	2. A private key ring has a table of rows, each of which contain a 
	timestamp detailing when the key pair was made, a key ID, the public key,
	the encrypted private key, and a user ID.
	3. Public-key rings have a table of rows which contain, a timestamp, key 
	ID, public key, and user ID. Public-key rings are used to store the public
	keys of other users that you contact.
	4. The key ID is used to get the receiver's encrypted private key. The user
	gives the passphrase to get the private key, and the message is decrypted.
	5. The key legitimacy field is used to indicate how much PGP trusts that 
	a public key is valid.
	6. The owner of the key signs a key revocation certificate and recipients
	update their public-key rings.
	
Lecture 71:
	1. The consumer problem is when communication is disrupted logically 
	between the client and service. The producer problem is when an attacker
	overwhelms a server. The producer problem is more prevalent.
	2. SYN flooding happens when an attacker forges return addresses on SYN 
	packets which causes a server to fill its table with half-open connections.
	3. The first could use a lot of resources. The second might not let slower
	clients connect. The third is hard to determine.
	
Lecture 72:
	1. It can block messages being sent by detecting patterns.
	2. Intrusion detection reacts after an attack has started, while intrusion 
	prevention tries to block attempted attacks.
	3. Over-provisioning a network means to have too many servers to be 
	overwhelmed, but it is expensive. Filtering attack packets means to try 
	and distinguish between attack packets and regular packets, but may not be
	possible. Slowing down processing would be a disadvantage for everyone, but
	maybe more so to attackers. The speak-up solution tried to request 
	additional traffic from all, assuming that attackers have maxed out.
	
Lecture 73:
	1. False negatives are when a real attack isn't detected. False positives 
	are when valid actions are mistaken as attacks. False negatives are worse.
	2. Accurate means that all real attacks are detected. Precise means that
	legitimate behavior is not classified as an attack.
	3. Doing both at the same time is difficult.
	4. Even though a percentage for detection may seem good, attacks are rare, 
	so a majority of alarms set off will be false positives, causing it to be
	shut down. An IDS with too many errors is no good.
	
Lecture 74:
	1. Code Red was a worm that broke into systems and launched a DoS attack.
	2. It was ineffective because it had a static seed and was memory resident.
	3. Memory resident means that a machine can be disinfected by rebooting it.
	This means that it's easy to get rid of once.
	4. It used a random seed in its random number generator.
	
Lecture 75:
	1. It was also a worm that exploited the buffer-overflow vulnerability in
	Microsoft's IIS webservers.
	2. It incorporated it so that machines on the same network, which are 
	likely to be running similar software, would be targeted.
	3. It made it so that a backdoor was implemented which allowed for any code
	to be executed. The machines could be used as zombies.
	4. Having a lot of unpatched machines means that there are more 
	vulnerabilities. Attacks are easier on these machines.
	5. Patches were available much earlier than the attacks even started. A 
	lesson from the study is that machines should be patched as soon as 
	possible to improve security because attackers adapt quickly.
	
Lecture 76:
	1. Most customers don't know how to assess their needs and choose a correct
	product themselves.
	2. The components of an evaluation standard are: a set of things you want
	the system to have, a policy and a way to make sure the policy is met, and
	a grade.
	3. They need a separate mechanism because there are more requirements that
	need to be met.
	4. Level 1 is just basic security. Level 2 is a bit better and helps 
	determine if there has been any tampering. Level 3 has strong 
	tamper-resistance. Level 4 is very strong protection, like government 
	level.
	
Lecture 77:
	1. It is a secure systems evaluation criteria.
	2. It is used by many countries.
	3. National schemes are needed for the different standards that each 
	country has.
	4. A protection profile is a formal description of security for a class of
	systems. A security target is a specific system.
	
Lecture 78:
	1. The overall goal is to provide a way to decide whether threats and 
	assumptions are being addressed by mechanisms and requirements.
	2. The various parts show what needs to be done and what could happen along
	with objectives to take care of these needs.
	3. The purpose of the matrix is to show what problems are addressed and
	by what objectives.
	
Lecture 79:
	1. The overall goal of the security target evaluation is to specify what
	security means for a product and how the product enforces that notion of
	security.
	2. It differs in that it shows how a particular product maintains security
	rather than what security measures need to be addressed for a class of 
	products or systems.
	
Lecture 80:
	1. EALs are Evaluation Assurance Levels. These levels show how much
	assurance a vendor provided according to how hard they tested something.
	2. Independent organizations accredited to perform Common Criteria testing.
	At higher levels, it is done by the government.
	3. Each country has their own definitions of semiformal and formal 
	verification and are suspicious of others.
	4. Vendors can't certify their own products because only accredited 
	organizations are allowed. This is so that no fishy business may be done.
	5. It's probably bad because it's not rigorous enough.
