Name: Kevin ByersEID: kb25543CS Login: kevinbEmail: Kevin.byers.tennis@gmail.com				CS361 Questions: Week 2These questions relate to Modules 4, 5, 6 and 7. Type your answers and submit them via email to Dr. Young by 5pm on Thursday, June 19. The questions marked with a dagger (†) require external research and may be more extensive and time consuming. You don’t have to do them for the assignment but you may want to do them to increase your knowledge of the subject matter.Lecture 171. If a computer system complies with the BLP model, does it necessarily comply with non-interference? Why or why not?No, if an action, such as create, can cause a difference in the low level’s view, then the high-level subject can communicate (interfere) with the low-level subject by transferring one bit at a time. 2. What would the NI policy be for a BLP system with subjects: A at (Secret: Crypto), B at (Secret: Nuclear)?A cannot interfere with B and B cannot interfere with A.3. Can covert channels exist in an NI policy? Why or why not? No, because without communication between high and low-level subjects, there is no way to pass data.4. If the NI policy is A ?> B, in a BLP system what combinations of the levels “high” and “low” could A and B have? A and B could both be high-level subjects, or low-level subjects or B can be a high-level and A could be a low-level.Lecture 181. Why do NI policies better resemble meta-policies than policies?NI policies are general and policies are more specific implementations, rather than an overall rule like the meta-policies.2. What would be L’s view of the following actions: h1, l1, h2, h3, . . . , hj -> l1l2, l3, . . . , lk ->l2, l3, . . . , lk3. What is difficult about proving NI for realistic systems? There are so many possibilities for interference in a realistic system making it very hard to prove NI especially when blocking all of the covert channels hinders overall performance of a system.Lecture 191. Explain the importance of integrity in various contexts.Integrity is very important that military orders and information have not been tampered with to everybody in the military, but not as important when someone posts false information on Wikipedia.2. Why would a company or individual opt to purchase commercial software rather than download a similar, freely available version?The commercial software may be more suitable in addressing their security concerns than the freely available version.3. Explain the difference between separation of duty and separation of function.Separation of duty needs for several different subjects to be involved to complete a critical function, separation of function limits a single subject from completing complementary roles within a critical process to avoid a conflict of interest.4. What is the importance of auditing in integrity contexts?Making sure whoever/whatever reduced the integrity of the given context is held accountable.5. What are the underlying ideas that raise the integrity concerns of Lipner?Lipner is concerned with the separation of duties and the ability for software being reused or naively tested in a commercial data processing environment.6. Name a common scenario where integrity would be more important than confidentiality.A website with important public information like a weather channel website, because they don’t care who can see the information, but if information is changed, it would affect user traffic due to a loss of trust.Lecture 201. Give examples of information that is highly reliable with little sensitivity and information that is not so highly reliable but with greater sensitivity.A government website with census information would be highly reliable, but not very sensitive.  A blog could be pretty sensitive, but not necessarily reliable.2. Explain the “dominates” relationships for each row in the table on slide 4.The category expert is more credible than student and Physics its own superset, so Label 1 dominates Label 2. The category novice is less credible than expert so Label 1 does not dominate Label 2. Student is more credible than Novice and Art is a superset of the empty set, so Label 1 dominates Label 2.3. Construct the NI policy for the integrity meta-policy.If A is a highly trusted subject and B is not, A is allowed to interfere with B, but B cannot interfere with A. 4. What does it mean that confidentiality and integrity are “orthogonal issues?”They should be independent of each other, because writing and reading are two separate concepts with their own importance/requirements.Lecture 211. Why is Biba Integrity called the “dual” of the BLP model?Biba will yield the exact opposite associated access control matrix from BLP for any given context.2. Why in the ACM on slide 5 is the entry for Subj3 - Obj3 empty?Subject 3 has categories that Object 3 does not. 3. If a subject satisfies confidentiality requirements but fails integrity requirements of an object, can the subject access the object?It can access the object for a read, but not a write.Lecture 221. What is the assumption about subjects in Biba’s low water mark policy?Subjects are unable to differentiate between good information and bad information.2. Are the subjects considered trustworthy?No, if they read low integrity information, they are considered corrupt.3. Does the Ring policy make some assumption about the subject that the LWM policy does not?Yes, the subject has the ability to differentiate between good and bad information.4. Are the subjects considered trustworthy?Yes, their credibility is not changed because of the information they read.Lecture 231. Are the SD and ID categories in Lipner’s model related to each other?They both refer to development categories, but one is for integrity and one is for confidentiality. 2. Why is it necessary for system controllers to have to ability to downgrade?So they can change the authorization levels of labels.3. Can system controllers modify development code/test data?No, they can only move them to production.4. What form of tranquility underlies the downgrade ability?The downgrade ability is weak tranquility.Lecture 241. What is the purpose of the four fundamental concerns of Clark and Wilson?To legitimize transactions commercial integrity in a uniform and systematic way by verifying identities, logging the execution of programs, limit the manipulation of data, and prevent unauthorized modifications.2. What are some possible examples of CDIs in a commercial setting?Newspapers and bank accounts are examples of CDIs.3. What are some possible examples of UDIs in a commercial setting?An anonymous message board and a graffiti wall are examples of UDIs.4. What is the difference between certification and enforcement rules?Enforcement rules guarantee confidentiality in terms of authorization levels and certification rules guarantee validity of the state of a CDI at a given moment.5. Give an example of permission in a commercial setting. (Author, post story in newspaper, {picture, text})Lecture 251. Why would a consultant hired by American Airlines potentially have a breach of confidentiality if also hired by United Airlines?They would be able to pass along confidential information causing a conflict of interests.2. In the example conflict classes, if you accessed a file from GM, then subsequently accessed a file from Microsoft, will you then be able to access another file from GM?Yes, because it only limits accessing different companies in the same conflict class.3. Following the previous question, what companies’ files are available for access according to the simple security rule?GM’s files or files from a company in a different conflict of interest class.4. What differences separate the Chinese-Wall policy from the BLP model?The Chinese-Wall policy specifically addresses conflicts of interest by consultants or contractors, but not necessarily flow of data to a lower security level.Lecture 261. What benefits are there in associating permissions with roles, rather than subjects?You only need to associate permissions with a specific role instead of associating permissions with all the people who perform roles. 2. What is the difference between authorized roles and active roles?Active roles are the set of roles an individual currently occupies.  Authorized roles are the set of roles, which an individual is allowed to fill at various times.3. What is the difference between role authorization and transaction authorization?Role authorization checks to make sure a subject’s active role is an authorized role for them.  Transaction authorization only allows a transaction for one of the subject’s active roles.4. What disadvantages do standard access control policies have when compared to RBAC?Standard access control policies are less flexible, harder to administer, and fail to recognize that a subject usually has various functions within an organization.Lecture 271. Why would one not want to build an explicit ACM for an access control system?In realistic systems most subjects don’t have any access to most objects.2. Name, in order, the ACM alternatives for storing permissions with objects, storing permissions with subjects and computing permissions on the fly.Maintain a set of rules to compute access permissions “on the fly” based on attributes of subjects and objects.  Store the permissions with objects in an access control list (ACL).  Store the permissions with subjects in a capability-based system.Lecture 281. What must be true for the receiver to interpret the answer to a “yes” or “no” question? The receiver needs to know whether yes is associated with a 0 or 1.2. Why would one want to quantify the information content of a message?To know how much information to send or receive in order to help encode and decode the data and make sure the channel being used is a realistic way of passing all of the information.3. Why must the sender and receiver have some shared knowledge and an agreed encoding scheme?So the sender can encode and the receiver can decode the information reliably and allow for clear communication.4. Why wouldn’t the sender want to transmit more data than the receiver needs to resolve uncertainty?You want to limit the chances of the covert channel being found and increase the chance of the full message being received.5. If the receiver knows the answer to a question will be “yes,” how many bits of data quantify the information content? ExplainOne bit of data as long as the sender and receiver have already agreed on which bit was associated with yes and which with no.Lecture 291. How much information is contained in each of the first three messages from slide 2? N bits, 4 bits, and 7 bits2. Why does the amount of information contained in “The attack is at dawn” depend on the receiver’s level of uncertainty?If the sender and receiver have agreed upon an attack, but needed to verify whether it was at dusk or dawn, then only one bit would be required, but if they had never previously talked about the attack, then more bits would be required.3. How many bits of information must be transmitted for a sender to send one of exactly 16 messages? Why?4 bits, because that would allow for 0 through 15 digits, which could represent a total of 16 different messages.4. How much information content is contained in a message from a space of 256 messages?8 bits5. Explain why very few circumstances are ideal, in terms of sending information content.Information content usually requires more complex situations that do not allow for the reduction of uncertainty by half.Lecture 301. Explain the difference between the two connotations of the term “bit.”The first connotation is a binary digit (discrete) and the second is a quantity of information (continuous).2. Construct the naive encoding for 8 possible messages.0000, 0001, 0010, 0011, 0100, 0101, 0110, 0111 which encode message 0 through 7.3. Explain why the encoding on slide 5 takes 995 + (5 * 5) bits.995 of a given 1000 messages will be message 10, which is coded by only one bit and the other 5 messages are chosen from messages which take 5 bits to code.4. How can knowing the prior probabilities of messages lead to a more efficient encoding?You can encode the most used messages with a lower number of bits increasing the messages sent over a fixed bandwidth.5. Construct an encoding for 4 possible messages that is worse than the naïve encoding.00000001, 00000011, 00000100, 000001016. What are some implications if it is possible to find an optimal encoding?A limit on the efficiency of encoding messages and a necessity to use that encoding scheme.Lecture 311. Name a string in the language consisting of positive, even numbers.24682. Construct a non-prefix-free encoding for the possible rolls of a 6-sided die. 	1	1     2	0     3	00     4	01     5	10     6 	113. Why is it necessary for an encoding to be uniquely decodable?To ensure the integrity of the message and prevent ambiguity.4. Why is a lossless encoding scheme desirable?So the message sent can be interpreted as intended with no loss of information.5. Why doesn’t Morse code satisfy our criteria for encodings?It lacks the streaming property.Lecture 321. Calculate the entropy of an 8-sided, fair die (all outcomes are equally likely).-(-3/8 * 8) = 32. If an unbalanced coin is 4 times more likely to yield a tail than a head, what is the entropy of the language?-(4/5(log2(4/5) + 1/5(log2(1/5)))3. Why is it important to know the entropy of a language?To be able to set up an efficient encoding system that includes every symbol in the language.Lecture 331. Explain the reasoning behind the expectations presented in slide 3.You have to multiply the probability of first flip happening by the probability of the second flip happening.2. Explain why the total expected number of bits is 27 in the example presented in slide 4.With the expected number of results times the number of bits per result, you just add the total number of bits per result to get the total expected number of bits.3. What is the naive encoding for the language in slide 5?000, 001, 010, 011, 100, 101 representing a roll of a 1 through 6.4. What is the entropy of this language?-(2(6/20log2(6/20)) + 2(2/20log2(3/20) + 2(1/20log2(1/20))5. Find an encoding more efficient than the naive encoding for this language.00, 01, 100, 101, 110, 1116. Why is your encoding more efficient than the naive encoding?It reduces the number of bits used for the more likely rolls (1 and 2).