Sean Villars
eid: stv223
cs: svillars
stvillars8@gmail.com


Lecture 66
1. What is PGP?
Stands for “Pretty Good Privacy”, it is an encryption algorithm.


2. What motivated Phil Zimmerman to develop it?
His strong distrust for the government and his belief that everyone has an absolute right to privacy.


3. Does PGP provide effective security?
Yes, in a recent incident in 2006 the US govt could not break the encryption on a laptop using PGP to encrypt files.


4. If PGP is freeware, why would anyone bother to purchase support?
PGP is actually not free anymore so you have to buy it! But buying a packaged version of the software through a company increases the accountability of the software.


Lecture 67
1. Explain the PGP authentication protocol.
It provides authentication through the use of the sender signing with his private key and a receiver decrypting with the public key.  The receiver then hashes the message and compares it to the hashed version that he received.


2. Explain the PGP confidentiality protocol.
A message is encrypted with a session key, and the session key is encrypted with the receiver’s public key. The receiver decrypts with his public key to obtain the session key and uses the session key to obtain the message. 


3. How do you get both authentication and confidentiality?
Authentications is achieved two fold by using the public key system as well as a comparison of a hashed message. Confidentiality is also achieved two fold by using a public key system to encrypt the session key which encrypts the message.


Lecture 68
1. Besides authentication and confidentiality, what other “services” does PGP provide?
Compression, Email compatibility, and segmentation.


2. Why is compression needed?
In order to increase efficiency and it also reduces redundancy in the message.


3. Why sign a message and then compress, rather than the other way around?
So that the signature doesn’t have to depend on the compression algorithm.


4. Explain radix-64 conversion and why it’s needed?
It converts the message into groups of four ASCII characters. It is needed because many email systems would choke due to certain bit strings in its default octet format.


5. Why is PGP segmentation needed?
Because email systems often restrict message length.


Lecture 69
1. What are the four kinds of keys used by PGP?
One-time session symmetric keys, public keys, private keys, and passphrase-based symmetric keys.


2. What special properties are needed of session keys?
Some user input and a chosen key size. Also the fact that they are only used once.


3. How are session keys generated?
By combining a previous session key and two n/2 bit blocks generated on user keystrokes, including keystroke timing.


4. Assuming RSA is used for PGP asymmetric encryption, how are the keys generated?
By testing for primality. It usually takes about ln(2^200)/2 = 70 tries to find a prime around 200 bits.


5. How are the private keys protected? Why is this necessary?
With a user passphrase. If the private key is compromised then the entire system fails.


Lecture 70
1. If a user has multiple private/public key pairs, how does he know which was used when he receives an encrypted message?
Generate an ID likely to be unique for a given user which uses the least significant 64-bits of the key as the ID.


2. What’s on a user’s private key ring?
Timestamps, key ID’s, public key, private key, and the user ID.


3. What’s on a user’s public key ring?
Timestamps, key ID’s, public key, and user ID.


4. What are the steps in retrieving a private key from the key ring?
Use the key ID field in the session key component to retrieve the private key, prompt user for passphrase, then recover the session key and decrypt the message.


5. What is the key legitimacy field for?
An indication to the extent to which PGP trusts that this is a valid public key for this user.


6. How is a key revoked?
If compromise is suspected or to limit the period of use of the key.


Lecture 71
1. Explain the difference between the consumer and producer problems. Which is more prevalent?
The consumer problem, aka man in the middle, is where the attacker gets logically between the client and service and somehow disrupts the communication. The producer problem is where the attacker produces, offers or requests so many services that the server is overwhelmed. 


2. Explain syn flooding.
Where, inside of a protocol, an attacker does not respond and the server ties up resources waiting for a response.


3. Why are the first three solutions to syn flooding not ideal?
The first isn’t because the attacker could just send more, the second could potentially reduce availability to some of your users, and the third is difficult to carry out.


Lecture 72
1. Why does packet filtering work very well to prevent attacks?
It will filter out malicious packets. 


2. What are the differences between intrusion detection and intrusion prevention systems?
Intrusion detection reacts after the attacks have begun while prevention attempts to prevent the intrusion from happening.


3. Explain the four different solutions mentioned to DDoS attacks.
You could over-provision the network , filter attack packets, slow down processing, or speak up which is where you request additional traffic from all requestors.


Lecture 73
1. Explain false positive and false negatives. Which is worse?
False negative is where a genuine attack is not detected and a false positive is where harmless behavior is mis-classified as an attack. False negatives are much worse because attacks would be slipping past you. Better to be overly cautious than under.


2. Explain what “accurate” and “precise” mean in the IDS context.
Accuracy is determined if it detects all genuine attacks, and precision is if it never reports legitimate behavior as an attack. 


3. Explain the statement: “It’s easy to build an IDS that is either accurate or precise?
It is basically saying that it is difficult to build a system the does both.


4. What is the base rate fallacy? Why is it relevant to an IDS?
It is an error in thinking when related with base information. It leads to errors in thinking when we look at the probabilities of false positives on our system.


Lecture 74
1. What did Code Red version 1 attempt to do?
Dos on the white house website and deface web pages with words that said “Hacked by Chinese”.


2. Why was Code Red version 1 ineffective?
The worm used a static seed in its random number generator and thus generates identical lists of IP addresses on each infected machine which made the worm spread slowly. The IP address for the white house website changed so the attack failed.


3. What does it mean to say that a worm is “memory resident”? What are the implications.
It means that the worm will go away when the computer is rebooted.


4. Why was Code Red version 2 much more effective than version 1?
Because it used a random seed so more machines were infected.


Lecture 75
1. How was Code Red II related to Code Red (versions 1 and 2)?
It still infected the same.


2. Why do you suppose Code Red II incorporated its elaborate propagation scheme?
In order to affect even more machines and stay hidden.


3. What did Code Red II attempt to do?
Create a backdoor and install a mechanism for remote, root-level access which allows any code to be executed in future attacks.


4. Comment on the implications of a large population of unpatched machines.
That is very bad.


5. Comment on the report from Verizon cited on slide 6. What are the lessons of their study?
That is a lot of machines! And 90% of the breaches were caused by a 6 month old patch.


Lecture 76
1. Why is a certification regime for secure products necessary and useful?
To help customers to buy well suited products who might not have an expertise in the field.


2. Explain the components of an evaluation standard.
A set of requirements defining security functionality, a set of assurance requirements needed for establishing the functional requirements, a methodology for determining that the functional requirements are met, and a measure of the evaluation result indicating the trustworthiness of the evaluated system.


3. Why would crypto devices have a separate evaluation mechanism?
Because they are solving different issues.


4. Explain the four levels of certification for crypto devices.
Level one just having one approved algorithm, two has improved physical security, three is strong tamper-resistance and countermeasures, and four includes zeroing keys upon tampering.


Lecture 77
1. What is the Common Criteria?
Secure systems evaluation criteria adopted largely by some 26 countries and comprises of the CC documents, the CC evaluation methodology, and country specific evaluation methodologies called an Evaluation Scheme or National Scheme.


2. What’s “common” about it?
That countries respec most evaluations of others.


3. Why would there be any need for “National Schemes”?
For country specific issues.


4. Explain the difference between a protection profile and a security target.
A protection profile is a set of implementation-independent security requirements for a category of products or systems and a security target is a set of security requirements to be used to as the basis of evaluation.


Lecture 78
1. Explain the overall goal of the protection profile as exemplified by the WBIS example.
To provide integrity and availability of the readings.


2. What is the purpose of the various parts of the protection profile (as exemplified in the WBIS example)?
To provide authentication, internal integrity protections, and stored data integrity.


3. What is the purpose of the matrix on slide 7?
To see your coverage of protections and get a big picture of it all.


Lecture 79
1. Explain the overall goal of the security target evaluation as exemplified by the Sun Identity Manager example.
Ensure access privileges are enforced correctly.


2. How do you think that a security target evaluation differs from a protection profile evaluation?
Protection profile might be a bit more generic and security target evaluation might be more specific and tailored to a specific system.


Lecture 80
1. What are the EALs and what are they used for?
Evaluation assurance levels, they are used to asses a level of rigor. 


2. Who performs the Common Criteria evaluations?
The companies, but the government must believe that the evaluation was conducted properly.


3. Speculate why the higher EALs are not necessarily mutually recognized by various countries.
 Because some countries higher standards might be a lot tougher than others.


4. Can vendors certify their own products? Why or why not?
No, this ensures accountability and fair evaluation.


5. If you’re performing a formal evaluation, why is it probably bad to reverse
engineer the model from the code?
Because it can be misleading.


Well done!