Name: Jordan Graves
EID: jlg3585
CS Login: jgraves
Email: j.l.graves03@gmail.com






1. What uses of the term “security” are relevant to your everyday life?


Personal security
Physical security
Corporate security
National (homeland) security
Operations security
Personnel security
Communication security
Computer security
Network security
System security


2. What do these have in common?


They all refer to the “protection of assets against attack”


3. Have you been a victim of lax security?


4. What is the likelihood that your laptop is infected? How did you decide?


Very unlikely. Firstly, it’s a Mac. Secondly, my laptop requires a password be entered for every session. Third, all software I have installed are from trusted providers. Fourth, any changes to the system requires the password be entered.


5. What security measures do you employ on your laptop?
Password protection.
6. Do you think they are probably effective?


Certainly.
7. Consider the quote from the FBI ofﬁcial on slide 10. Do you think it overstates the case? Justify your answer.


Certainly not. However, some could say the F.B.I. only says such things to scare the populace into accepting such institution’s required existence. I simply choose not to accept such extreme opinions. We are in the Information Age. What in the Information Age is more valuable than information itself. If a warring nation were to acquire all of the information stored on our computers, especially without our knowing, they would have an upperhand seemingly impossible to overcome. The statement brings me to question how much information our government protection programs (F.B.I., N.S.A.) deem unsafe to be represented as bytes.


8. What is the importance in learning about computer security?
About as important learning to lock your door. A hacker could be sitting across from me at the very second inspecting traffic across the shared WiFi router my computer is currently connected too. Of course, he wouldn’t acquire any useful information without a great deal of trouble. In any case, with the rate at which technology is increasing our general connectivity and increasing its presence in everyday life, I’d say computer security is something that people should certainly be aware of. 




Lecture 2
1. Consider the ﬁve reasons given why security is hard. Can you think of other factors?
As a defender, your moral compass points north, at least I would assume so. As an attacker, one who wants to bad things, your moral compass points south. Here we have two opposite pointing compasses which are possibly the product of completely different ideologies, learned values, needs, and just about any other factor which ultimately determines a persons character. As a defender, I would imagine you would have to think like an attacker, something you are not. Hence, another layer of difficulty.
2. Is there a systematic way to enumerate the “bad things” that might happen
to a program? Why or why not?
Probably not. At least not ALL “bad things.” Theoretically though, of course. One would just have to know all things there are to know about the universe.


3. Explain the asymmetry between the defender and attacker in security.
The defender tries to defend the system from the attacked by “plugging” all paths from which the attacker can enter the system and mess things up. The attacker must only find one gap to win. The defender wins only as long as the attacker is kept out.


4. Examine the quotes from Morris and Chang. Do you agree? Why or why not?
Certainly. Firstly, because they are experts in a field which I am a beginner in. I simply do not have the knowledge to challenge them. Secondly, computer seem to be simply too complex for anyone to promise one is completely secure.


5. Explain the statement on slide 8 that a tradeoff is typically required.
I suppose I can best explain this with an example. Consider if all information of each and every person was publicly available. This is hard to imagine of course due to the seemingly complete impracticality of the scenario. However, as I have already stated in a previous answer, information is an ultimate power, and if all information is publically available, I believe more people are empowered. However, this scenario doesn’t sit right with rational reasoning. People lose their privacy. Why is privacy important to them, so that they are not harmed. So we lose empowering more people by providing more information by gaining protection for the people.






Lecture 3


1. Deﬁne “risk”?
The Merrian-Webster dictionary defines “risk” as,
The possibility that something bad or unpleasant (such as an injury or a loss) will happen
Someone or something that may cause something bad or unpleasant to happen
A person or thing that someone judges to be a good or bad choice for insurance, a loan, etc.


From the lecture: The possibly that a particular threat will adversly impact an information system by exploiting a particular vulnerability


2. Do you agree that software security is about managing risk?
Of course. I would say any type of security is about managing risk.


3. Name and explain a risk you accept, one you avoid, one you mitigate, and one you transfer?
Accept: Driving. Could get in a wreck due to a shitty driver.
Avoid: Where a seatbelt. Avoid flying out of the window if I do get in a wreck.
Mitigate: Driving an old Chevy rather than my Bentley so that if I do get in a wreck, I will not mess up my Bentley.
Transfer: Buying an insurance policy, warranty.


4. Evaluate annualized loss expectancy as a risk management tool.


5. List some factors relevant to rational risk assessment.
Technical, psychological, economic.


Lecture 4
1. Explain the key distinction between the lists on slides 2 and 3.
The list on Slide 2 lists values we try to maintain in the field of security.
The lists on slide 3 lists tools and technical elements we use to maintain these values.


2. Consider your use of computing in your personal life. Which is most important: conﬁdentiality, integrity, availability? Justify your answer.
In the context of the files I maintain from my work, confidentiality.
In the context of my bank account, integrity.
In the context of my general curiousity, availability, that being of the internet.


3. What does it mean “to group and categorize data”?
Seems to be the process of grouping data in a way that portions of the data can be available to different extents to different individuals. Bank records, lots of data, groups by accounts each accessed by unique individuals.


4. Why might authorizations change over time?
Consider a software company with their code on GitHub. A new employee becomes authorized to access the repo upon being hired. After his termination, his authorization is revoked.


5. Some of the availability questions seem to relate more to reliability than to security. How are the two related?
Good availability of something means providing access to it reliably.
6. In what contexts would authentication and non-repudiation be considered important?
With a bank account. Considering that someone could get passed the authorization process and transfer funds to another account, non-repudiation becomes an important second defense to keep your funds safe.








Lecture 5


1. Describe a possible metapolicy for a cell phone network? A military database?


Cell phone network: conversations should be private between individuals.
Military database: the database should only be accessible to authorized individuals


2. Why do you need a policy if you have a metapolicy?


The policy serves as a guide for implementing the metapolicy


3. Give three possible rules within a policy concerning students’ academic records.


faculty/staff may not use student SSNs in documents/files/postings; all older docs containing SSNs must be destroyed unless deemed necessary; documents deemed necessary must be kept in secure storage; etc.


4. Could stakeholders’ interest conﬂict in a policy? Give an example.


5. For the example given involving student SSNs, state the likely metapolicy.


Student SSN’s should not be protected from disclosure


6. Explain the statement: ”If you don’t understand the metapolicy, it becomes difﬁcult to justify and evaluate the policy.”


Without a complete understand of the main goal, the smaller, sub-goals are harder to understand and accomplish.


Lecture 6


1. Why is military security mainly about conﬁdentiality? Are there also aspects of integrity and availability?


Leaked information could mean a loss of lives and protection from serious threats.


2. Describe the major threat in our MLS thought experiment.


Someone with a low security clearance gets access to highly confidential information and possibly leaks the information.


3. Why do you think the proviso is there?


To explain any counter intuitive rationale that may come about when implementing a strong confidentiality policy.


4. Explain the form of the labels we’re using.






5. Why do you suppose we’re not concerned with how the labels get there?


The are abstractions.


6. Rank the facts listed on slide 6 by sensitivity.


Insensitive to most sensitive:


Cafeteria serving chopped beef.
Baseball team has game.
Smith didn’t get a raise
Jones got a raise
British have broken codes
Invasion scheduled for June 6


7. Invent labels for documents containing each of those facts.


Labels could simply be something like. High, low, super, classified, top-level classified...


8. Justify the rules for “mixed” documents.






Lecture 7


1. Document labels are stamped on the outside. How are “labels” afﬁxed to humans?


Individuals (subjects) have clearances or authorization levels that are typically of the same form as document sensitivity levels.


2. Explain the difference in semantics of labels for documents and labels for humans.


Document labels classify information, human labels classify who has access and what kind to that information.
 
3. In the context of computers what do you think are the analogues 
of documents? Of humans?


Programs are humans and files are documents.


4. Explain why the Principle of Least Privilege makes sense.


It specifies a minimum requirement from which the security system must not prevent.


5. For each of the pairs of labels on slide 6, explain why the answers in the third column do or do not make sense.


A person with a secret clearance can access confidential information.
A person with a secret clearance cannot access top-secret information.
Anyone can access unclassified information.


Lecture 8


1. Why do you think we introduced the vocabulary terms: objects, subjects, actions?


To provide a basis for further conversation on the topic.


2. Prove that dominates is a partial order (reﬂexive, transitive, antisymmetric).






3. Show that dominates is not a total order.


There are security labels A and B s.t. neither A is greater than or equal to B nor B is greater than or equal to A.


4. What would have to be true for two labels to dominate each other?


For Labels (L1, S1) and (L2, S2)
(L1,S1) dominates (L2,S2) iff
1. L1≥L2 in the ordering on levels, and
2. S2⊆S1.


5. State informally what the the Simple Security property says.


A subject can read objects at it’s level or below but not above.


6. Explain why it’s “only if” and not “if and only if.”
Confirming to the Simple Security property is only a necessary condition and not a fully sufficient condition to gain access.








Lecture 9


1. Why isn’t Simple Security enough to ensure conﬁdentiality?


It does not cover write access or copy access. A subject can copy classified information to an unclassified object.


2. Why do we need constraints on write access?


Information can flow in two ways, read and write. Without some constraints information can flow downward.


3. What is it about computers, as opposed to human beings, that makes that particularly important?


Although we may trust a human, we cannot trust all programs that are running on a person machine.


4. State informally what the *-Property says.


A subject attempting to gain write acces to an object can only do so if the level of the subject is dominated by the level of the object.


5. What must be true for a subject to have both read and write access to an object?


The subject must dominate the object and the object must also dominate the object.
6. How could we deal with the problem that the General (top secret) can’t send orders to the private (Unclassiﬁed)?


General logs into an unclassified account then sends the information.


7. Isn’t it a problem that a corporal can overwrite the war plan? Suggest how we might deal with that.


Yes, however, in this context, we are concerned with confidentiality. We would need more rules to deal with this scenario.


Lecture 10:


1. Evaluate changing a subject’s level (up or down) in light of weak tranquility.


Subjects and objects do not change levels in a way that violates the “spirit” of the security policy. 


2. Why not just use strong tranquility all the time?


It restricts the system from being dynamic.


3. Explain why lowering the level of an object may be dangerous.


The object may contain classified information, allowing low level subjects to write to it.




4. Explain what conditions must hold for a downgrade (lowering object level) to be secure.






Lecture 11:


1. Suppose you wanted to build a (library) system in which all subjects had read access to all ﬁles, but write access to none of them. What levels could you give to subjects and objects?


All subjects would have high levels and all objects would have low levels.


2. Why wouldn’t you usually build an access control matrix for a BLP system?


The matrix is not necessary. Given the rules of the BLP system access can be determined from those rules, bypassing looking in a possibly huge matrix (table). The matrix could be very large a sparse.


Lecture 12


1. Suppose you had hierarchical levels L, H with L < H, but only had one category A. Draw the lattice. (Use your keyboard and editor to draw it; it doesn’t have to be fancy.)






2. Given any two labels in a BLP system, what is the algorithm for ﬁnding their LUB and GLB?






3. Explain why upward ﬂow in the lattice really is the metapolicy for BLP.


The high level goal of the system is to keep information from flowing downward in the system.




Lecture 13


1. Explain how the BLP rules are supposed to enforce the metapolicy in the example on slide 1.


The BLP rules enforce what can be read and written by given subjects and by doing so prevents and allows the flow of information.


2. Argue that the READ and WRITE operations given satisfy BLP.


High level subjects cannot write to lower level objects which are readable by subjects lower than the high level subject, therefore preventing high level object from sending information downward.


3. Argue that the CREATE and DESTROY operations given satisfy BLP.


The operations are very similar to reading and writing. High level subjects create high level objects which are unreadable by low level subjects. Low level subjects create low level objects which are undestroyable (writable) by high level objects.


4. What has to be true for the covert channel on slide 5 to work?


5. Why is the DESTROY statement there?


6. Are the contents of any ﬁles different in the two paths?


7. Why does SL do the same thing in both cases? Must it?


8. Why does SH do different things? Must it?


9. Justify the statement on slide 7 that begins: “If SL ever sees...”




Lecture 14
1. Explain why “two human users talking over coffee is not a covert channel.”
2. Is the following a covert channel? Why or why not?
Send 0 | Send 1
------------------------------------------
Write (SH, F0, 0) | Write (SH, F0, 1)
Read (SL, F0) | Read (SL, F0)
3. Where does the bit of information transmitted “reside” in Covert Channel
#1?
4. In Covert Channel #2?CS361 Questions: Week 1 6
5. In Covert Channel #3?
6. In Covert Channel #4?
7. Why might a termination channel have low bandwidth?
8. What would have to be true to implement a power channel?
9. For what sort of devices might power channels arise?




Lecture 15
1. Explain why covert channels, while appearing to have such a low bandwidth, can potentially be very serious threats.
2. Why would it be infeasible to eliminate every potential covert channel?
3. If detected, how could one respond appropriately to a covert channel?
4. Describe a scenario in which a covert storage channel exists.
5. Describe how this covert storage channel can be utilized by the sender and
receiver.




Lecture 16
1. Why wouldn’t the “create” operation have an R in the SRMM for the “ﬁle
existence” attribute?
2. Why does an R and M in the same row of an SRMM table indicate a potential channel?
3. If an R and M are in the same column of an SRMM table, does this also
indicate a potential covert channel? Why or why not?
4. Why would anyone want to go through the trouble to create an SRMM
table?