Cristhian Escobar
UTeid: CJE466

Assignment 1 Questions:


S361 Questions: Week 1
These questions relate to Module(s) 1. Type your answers and submit them via
email to the TA by 5pm on Thursday, June 12.
Lecture 1
1. What uses of the term “security” are relevant to your everyday life?
  -Anything locking my car at the parking lot to making purchases online 
   through a secure website where information isn’t leaked.

2. What do these have in common? 
  -These two activities are meant to keep unwanted individuals out of my personal stuff

3. Have you been a victim of lax security?
  -No
4. What is the likelihood that your laptop is infected? How did you decide?
  - There is a possibility that my laptop is infected. The reason for this is that I like to 
   get my hands on software that is still being develop therefore I run the risk of unknown vulnerabilities 
   during the development face. 

5. What security measures do you employ on your laptop?
  -I don’t have an antivirus or anything of that sort but I try not to click on websites that look fishy. 
  Plus I restore my computer Every 6 months.

6. Do you think they are probably effective?
	-Nothing guarantees me that what I am doing is effective, but that’s just the way I do it

7. Consider the quote from the FBI official on slide 10. Do you think it overstates
the case? Justify your answer.
  -No, it just gives a different view of the situation and tells you if it is possible within the US 
  it’s likely possible for outside hackers to access the same information.

8. What is the importance in learning about computer security?
 -I think is critical to be aware of the threads that we can encounter in today’s digital world. 


Lecture 2
1. Consider the five reasons given why security is hard. Can you think of other
factors?
 -Yes definitely there are other reasons why security is hard. Let’s think about the technology that’s out 
 today in a month from now new technology comes out that enables the attack to software that used to be secure. 
 We cannot defend from future technology.  

2. Is there a systematic way to enumerate the “bad things” that might happen
to a program? Why or why not?
 -It depends right? Lets think about it from a developer perspective. We can do our best to securely handle 
 information however if the person who is trying to do damage is an expert he can figure out a way to access that information.  

3. Explain the asymmetry between the defender and attacker in security.
 -By the principal of easiest penetration the hacker will use any means to subvert the security system while the 
 defender will use any means to defend the information from being stolen.

4. Examine the quotes from Morris and Chang. Do you agree? Why or why
not?
 -Yes, because by owning a computer or electronic device you are at risk of having your information stolen by any of the 
 people out on the web. However if your information is located in any computer even if is not yours you are at risk.

5. Explain the statement on slide 8 that a tradeoff is typically required.
 -There is trade offs that we must made in a system to archive its goal. There must be a consensus on the over all 
 goals of a system and a well established level of security. It’s typically required to know what’s more 
 important to figure out what strategy to take to reach a goal.


Lecture 3
1. Define “risk”?
-Is the possibility that a particular thread will adversely impact an information system by exploiting a particular vulnerability.

2. Do you agree that software security is about managing risk?
-Yes by definition and intuition security is very hard. Its mainly about managing risk and realizing regarding the citation 
what’s more important to make the trade offs.

CS361 Questions: Week 1 2

3. Name and explain a risk you accept, one you avoid, one you mitigate, and
one you transfer?
Risk acceptance: risks are tolerated by the organization. e.g.
        sometimes the cost of insurance is greater than the potential loss.
Risk avoidance: not performing an activity that would incur risk.
        e.g. disallow remote login.
Risk mitigation: taking actions to reduce the losses due to a risk;
        most technical countermeasures fall into this category.
Risk transfer: shift the risk to someone else. e.g. most insurance
       contracts, home security systems.

4. Evaluate annualized loss expectancy as a risk management tool.
- Annualized Loss Expectancy effectively computes the “expected value” of any security expenditure.

5. List some factors relevant to rational risk assessment.
-Assessing risk is important, but difficult and depends on a number of factors (technical, economic, psychological, etc.)


Lecture 4
1. Explain the key distinction between the lists on slides 2 and 3.
 -Confidentiality, Integrity, and Accessibility, Authentication, Non-Repudiation are all aspects of security. 
 Meanwhile in slide 3 we see cryptography, firewall, passwords etc. which are a mechanism for protecting one or more aspects of security.  

2. Consider your use of computing in your personal life. Which is most important:
confidentiality, integrity, availability? Justify your answer.
 -Confidentiality because I won’t like it if unwanted people get access to my personal information and my intellectual property.

3. What does it mean “to group and categorize data”?
-To make a distinction on data and what group it belongs, is it Top Secret information or unclassified. 

4. Why might authorizations change over time?
-Information authorization changes over time because it becomes irrelevant as more people have access to it.

5. Some of the availability questions seem to relate more to reliability than to
security. How are the two related?
 -Availability could potentially be the entire purpose of the object. We could be talking about an online store and availability
 is vital. As well as security since its important to keep customer information safe. 

6. In what contexts would authentication and non-repudiation be considered
important?
-When we are dealing with people, we want to make sure that if person A logs in to a website to make a purchase we want to 
 ensure that it actually is him.

Lecture 5
1. Describe a possible metapolicy for a cell phone network? A military database?
 -The metapolicy for a cell phone would be to deliver the messages to the right people and to make connections with the 
 proper person when making a phone call. For a military it would be to keep the information regarding an invasion safe. 

2. Why do you need a policy if you have a metapolicy?
 -The policy are the actual rules that will help to accomplish the overall goal which is the metapolicy. 

3. Give three possible rules within a policy concerning students’ academic
records.
  -Only allow authorize employees to access academic records. 
  -Destroy any papers that contain student’s personal information.
  -Only give access to students to view their academic record.

4. Could stakeholders’ interest conflict in a policy? Give an example.
  -When making a transaction people would obviously want to make a rule that will benefit them more without considering others. (When to buy stock)

5. For the example given involving student SSNs, state the likely metapolicy.
  -Metapolicy would be to keep SSNs confidential between the person who it belongs to and the party that requires it.

6. Explain the statement: ”If you don’t understand the metapolicy, it becomes
difficult to justify and evaluate the policy.”
  -Its hard to make sense of rules whitout knowing the overall mission behind the rules.


Lecture 6
1. Why is military security mainly about confidentiality? Are there also aspects
of integrity and availability?
-The reason confidentiality is critical between two parties or in this case two military forces is because the 
leak of information from one to another could entirely change the outcome. 

CS361 Questions: Week 1 3

2. Describe the major threat in our MLS thought experiment.
-Given information at various sensitivity levels and individuals having various degrees of trustworthiness, 
how do you control access to information within the system to protect confidentiality

3. Why do you think the proviso is there?
-To have some sense of what is appropriate 

4. Explain the form of the labels we’re using.
-Labels are used to keep information separated and only access by the right person.

5. Why do you suppose we’re not concerned with how the labels get there?
-Because someone needs to put them there in the first place.

6. Rank the facts listed on slide 6 by sensitivity.
   The Normandy invasion is scheduled for June 6.
   The British have broken the German Enigma codes and so on
   Col. Jones just got a raise.
   Col. Smith didn’t get a raise.
   The base softball team has a game tomorrow at 3pm.
   The cafeteria is serving chopped beef on toast today.

7. Invent labels for documents containing each of those facts.
- Top Secret, Secret, Unclassified 

8. Justify the rules for “mixed” documents.
 -Things could because documnets from mul tiple disiplines or studies are classified both as the same sec level


Lecture 7
1. Document labels are stamped on the outside. How are “labels” affixed to
humans?
  -There is a level of trust associated with every person. To grant them access 
   according to how much you trust them.

2. Explain the difference in semantics of labels for documents and labels for
humans.
  -a hierarchical security level indicating the degree of
   trustworthiness to which he or she has been vetted
  -a set of “need-to-know categories” indicating domains of
   interest in which he or she is authorized to operate

3. In the context of computers what do you think are the analogues of documents?
Of humans?
  -Permision of files by users

4. Explain why the Principle of Least Privilege makes sense.
  -In a sense it is the same thing as levels of information. You don't want to have any user 
  be able to modify files

5. For each of the pairs of labels on slide 6, explain why the answers in the
third column do or do not make sense.
  Row 1: Yes. Confidential  < Secret and Crypto is the superset of Crypto
  Row 2: No. Secret level clearance is not enough to access Top Secret info


Lecture 8:
1. Why do you think we introduced the vocabulary terms: objects, subjects,
actions?
  -To establish some common language when refering to security

2. Prove that dominates is a partial order (reflexive, transitive, antisymmetric).'
  -: (L1, S1) dominates (L2, S2) iﬀ
   1. L1 ≥ L2 in the ordering on levels, and
   2. S2 ⊆ S1

3. Show that dominates is not a total order.
  -The Simple Security Property Subject S with clearance
   (LS , CS ) may be granted read access to object O with classiﬁcation
   (LO, CO) only if (LS , CS ) ≥ (LO, CO).

4. What would have to be true for two labels to dominate each other?
  -To have the same Label and have the sets be equal of the objects 

5. State informally what the the Simple Security property says.
   -The Simple Security Property Subject S with clearance
   (LS , CS ) may be granted read access to object O with classiﬁcation
   (LO, CO) only if (LS , CS ) ≥ (LO, CO).

6. Explain why it’s “only if” and not “if and only if.”
  Is the case that if you meet the clearance you might not be able to access it because 
  its not part of the superset. 

CS361 Questions: Week 1 4


Lecture 9
1. Why isn’t Simple Security enough to ensure confidentiality?
  -Because the Simple Security property doesn't protect against people leaking the
  information. For example Been able to access Top Secret info and making that available 
  to lower levels of security.

2. Why do we need constraints on write access?
  -To obtain information from the rihgt sources and to keep the integrity of the information.

3. What is it about computers, as opposed to human beings, that makes that
  particularly important?
  -Subjects in the world of computing are often programs operating
   on behalf of a trusted user (and with his/her clearance).

4. State informally what the *-Property says.
  -The *-Property: Subject S with clearance (LS , CS ) may
  be granted write access to object O with classiﬁcation 
  (LO, CO) only if (LS , CS ) ≤ (LO, CO).

5. What must be true for a subject to have both read and write access to an
object?
  -Have the right clearance level and be able to access that stuff. So same level and information
  on both subject and object must have the same set. 

6. How could we deal with the problem that the General (top secret) can’t send
orders to the private (Unclassified)?
  -The level of security is valid meaning the General has Top Secret access but it might be the case
  that the private is not within the same division of the general. Making it unlogical to orders to
  someone from another unit/ department.

7. Isn’t it a problem that a corporal can overwrite the war plan? Suggest how
we might deal with that.
  -We can give it read access only so that way if the categories are bot the same they can only read 
  and not write.


Lecture 10:
1. Evaluate changing a subject’s level (up or down) in light of weak tranquility.
  -The Weak Tranquility Property: Subjects and objects do not
  change labels in a way that violates the “spirit” of the security
  policy.

2. Why not just use strong tranquility all the time?
  -The Strong Tranquility Property: Subjects and objects do not
  change labels during the lifetime of the system.

3. Explain why lowering the level of an object may be dangerous.
   -The ability to change labels arbitrarily can subvert security, so
   we need a tranquility property to deal with that threat.

4. Explain what conditions must hold for a downgrade (lowering object level)
   to be secure.
   -Simple Security, the *-Property, and Tranquility together form
    the basis of the Bell and LaPadula (BLP) model of security.


Lecture 11:
1. Suppose you wanted to build a (library) system in which all subjects had
  read access to all files, but write access to none of them. What levels could
  you give to subjects and objects?
  -Every document would be unclassified (object) and the subjects would have an empty set and objects
   would have some type non empty set.

2. Why wouldn’t you usually build an access controlmatrix for a BLP system?
  -The BLP model of security would be a very slow in terms of responsiveness. (N by N) => O(n^2)
   N objects by N subjects look up 


Lecture 12
CS361 Questions: Week 1 5
1. Suppose you had hierarchical levels L, H with L < H, but only had one
category A. Draw the lattice. (Use your keyboard and editor to draw it; it
doesn’t have to be fancy.)
  H-{A}
   |
  H-{}
   |
  L-{A}
   |
  L-{}

2. Given any two labels in a BLP system, what is the algorithm for finding
their LUB and GLB?
  -any two elements have a least upper bound (supremum or join), and
  any two elements have a greatest lower bound (inﬁmum or meet).

3. Explain why upward flow in the lattice really is the metapolicy for BLP.
  -So for any Bell and LaPadula system, we only want information
  to ﬂow “upward” in the lattice ofsecurity levels. Equivalently, information
  may ﬂow from L1 to L2 only if L2 ≥ L1.


Lecture 13
1. Explain how the BLP rules are supposed to enforce the metapolicy in the
example on slide 1.
  -Consider the simple lattice of labels in the diagram, where H > L. There are no
   need-to-know categories in this system. Write Up and read down.

2. Argue that the READ and WRITE operations given satisfy BLP.
  Read if object O exists and LS ≥ LO, then return its
    current value; otherwise, return a zero.

  Write: if object exists O and LS ≤ LO, change its
     value to V; otherwise, do nothing.

3. Argue that the CREATE and DESTROY operations given satisfy BLP.
   -Create :if no object with name O exists anywhere on the
    system, create a new object O at level LS ; otherwise,
    do nothing.
   -Destroy if an object with name O exists and the
    LS ≤ LO, destroy it; otherwise, do nothing

4. What has to be true for the covert channel on slide 5 to work?
  -In the ﬁrst case, SL sees a value of 0; in the second case, SL sees a
   value of 1. Thus, SH can signal one bit of information to SL by
   varying its behavior.

5. Why is the DESTROY statement there?
  -to ensure the objects are being eliminated if needed

6. Are the contents of any files different in the two paths?
   -Yes

7. Why does SL do the same thing in both cases? Must it?
   - To keep consistency

8. Why does SH do different things? Must it?
   -because of the bits of information that are being transfered.

9. Justify the statement on slide 7.
  "If SL ever sees varying results depending on varying actions by SH,
   that could be used to send a bit of information from SH to SL, in
   violation of the metapolicy. Such a mechanism is called a covert channel."
      


Lecture 14
1. Explain why “two human users talking over coffee is not a covert channel.”

2. Is the following a covert channel? Why or why not?
Send 0 | Send 1
------------------------------------------
Write (SH, F0, 0) | Write (SH, F0, 1)
Read (SL, F0) | Read (SL, F0)

3. Where does the bit of information transmitted “reside” in Covert Channel #1?
  -Attempted access by SL to a high level resource returns one of two
  error messages: Resource not found or Access denied. By
  modulating the status of the resource, SH can send a bit of
  information on each access attempt by SL

4. In Covert Channel #2?
  -Process p could send a bit to process q by either using its total
  allocation or reliquishing the processor immediately. Process q
  reads the bit by consulting the system clock to see how much time
  has elapsed since it was last scheduled.

CS361 Questions: Week 1 6

5. In Covert Channel #3?
  -Process p either accesses cylinder 140 or 160. Process q requests
  accesses on cylinders 139 and 161. Thus, q receives values from
  139 and then 161, or from 161 and then 139, depending on p’s
  most recent read.

6. In Covert Channel #4?
  An implicit channel is one that uses the control ﬂow of a program.
  For example, consider the following program fragment:
  h := h mod 2;
  l := 0;
  if h = 1 then l := 1 else skip;

7. Why might a termination channel have low bandwidth?
  -A useful distinction is between storage and timing channels,
  though the breakdown is not always clear for speciﬁc channels

8. What would have to be true to implement a power channel?
  -A covert channel is any path for information between subjects,
  utilizing system resources that were not designed to be used
  for inter-subject communication.

9. For what sort of devices might power channels arise?
  -Communication devices such as computers


Lecture 15
1. Explain why covert channels, while appearing to have such a low bandwidth,
can potentially be very serious threats.
  -A covert channel is a path for the illegal ﬂow of
  information between subjects within a system, utilizing system
  resources that were not designed to be used for inter-subject
  communication.

2. Why would it be infeasible to eliminate every potential covert channel?
  -Dealing with a covert channel may include: eliminating it,
  restricting the bandwidth, or monitoring it.

3. If detected, how could one respond appropriately to a covert channel?

4. Describe a scenario in which a covert storage channel exists.

5. Describe how this covert storage channel can be utilized by the sender and
receiver.

  1 Both sender and receiver must have access to some attribute of a shared object.
  2 The sender must be able to modif the attribute.
  3 The receiver must be able to reference (view) that attribute.
  4 A mechanism for initiating both processes, and sequencing their accesses to the shared resource,
    must exist.


Lecture 16
1. Why wouldn’t the “create” operation have an R in the SRMM for the “file
existence” attribute?
2. Why does an R and M in the same row of an SRMM table indicate a potential
channel?
3. If an R and M are in the same column of an SRMM table, does this also
indicate a potential covert channel? Why or why not?
4. Why would anyone want to go through the trouble to create an SRMM
table?



Note: from class slides and class.
