Brandon Craig
bsc526

Lecture 53
1. The signature needs to be non resuable to avoid future forgability of messages. By reusing signatures a potential attack
may be able to impersonate Alice by figuring out her key and using it to impersonate her. If its non resusable then the key used
will only occur once and thus cannot be used to impersonate her.

2. To provide a way of figuring out whether the message has been tampered with. By signing the hash it will make it very difficult 
to produce a message that would fit the same hash with the key used. Makes tampering much harder

3. R has assurance that when he is decrypting the message that in fact it is Alice who sent it because only her public key can remove
the encryption.

Lecture 54
1. Certificate authorities allow for a web of trust to exist. They "vouch for" parties so that they can trust eachother even when
they have never dealt previously with eachother, allowing them to communicate

2. To keep people from trying to forge the signatures of the certicate authorities whos public key is known. Its for tamper proofing

3. To allow for messages to be checked for tampering. If the hash of Y and Ky doesnt match what is being given then its not going to 
be trustable.

4. Then they could be tricked into thinking they are talking to someone trustworthy

Lecture 55
1. The root contains a originally verified binding that is supposed to be verified by a impeachable and 
known certifier such as SecureNet
2. It tells the person for about how long they can trust the information. If at the time the certificate is read the time is passed the 
interval then they should not trust it as the party should be reverified for its information. Its to keep parties safe.

3. It means that either untrustworthy information was provided or there was tampering of messages

Lecture 56
1. Protocol: Send Ivan the message with your own key on it. He applys his key to and sends it back. You remove your application of your key and 
send that to him, only leaving the application of his own key allowing him to decrypt
2. If a step is ignored it may either make the message decipherable by Eve or make it undecipherable by Bob.
3. Because otherwise Bob cannot "reach inside" his encryption to under yours
4. By XORing M^Ka ^ (M^Kb) ^ (M^Ka^Kb). Ka and Kb cancel out leaving a single M
5. Xor (M^Ka^Kb) ^ (M^Ka^Kb^Ka)
6. Xor (M^KA) ^ (M^Ka^Kb)
7. Because its easy to make an algorithm thats cryptographically unsafe especially with they aren't one way algorithms like hash

Lecture 57
1. Protocols are important because they facilitate communication amongst principles. Without a way of
reliable communication where everyone understands how communication will be taking place then communication
will become unclear and hard to acheive
2. Cryptographic protocols are important because they allow for principles to be able to verify that the person
sending the message is who they say they are and allow for secret information to be able to be transferred amongst
them in a known hostile and untrustworthy environment
3. 

Lecture 58
1. Because if it does it can potentially make the protocol unsafe to use by adding additional complexity or
more information for Eve to use to break the protocol
2. Because it increases complexity and also could reveal information to Eve for future transactions of the protocol

Lecture 59
1. Because its difficult to know exactly what an attack might do or will be able to do with the protocol. Attackers can be very
creative.
2. A replay attack may allow for the attacker to be tricked into accepting the messages since they are only copies. No tampering.
Also may disrupt the receiving principles stage within the protocol creating communication problems
3. Yes. Interleaving attack. The point isn't to gain information but to disrupt the protocol
4. The attacker must attack in such a way that complies with the protocol
5. Because over the internet its impossible to know if a principle received your message
Lecture 60
1. No. The nonces allow for replay attack detection
2. 

Lecture 61
1. 
2. Yes. It is important to know what the consequences might be since you can't know for sure how secure your protocol is
3. Try to make every message protected with nonces to avoid that type of attack. Or make Nonces unique to each session. Cannot be reused

Lecture 62
1. Provides the guarantee of creating a secure channel with the correct principal 
2. Otway-Rees provides a way to secure the Nonces without sending them as plaintext so the there a protections against nonces being used by Eavesdroppers
3. 

Lecture 63
1. Because its dangerous to use a unsafe protocol that could result in information being compromised to people that are not authorized
2. formal system for reasoning about beliefs
3. Beliefs come in when messages start being passed. The belief would be something like "I believe this sender to be trustworthy"

Lecture 64
1. A formal system of logic that extends classical propositional and predicate logic to include operators expressing modality.
2. The intuition is that if B received the key K from A and it receives a message that is encrypted with K, then B must be the only one
has the key and thus could be the only one who sent X
3. The intuition is that because X is thought to be fresh and that X could have been uttered only recently, then A must think that B must 
believe X to be true.
4. The intuition is that if Q has jurisdiction over X, then ....
5. 

Lecture 65
1. It can be forged
2. 
3. Through idealization assumptions become uncovered because without them the proof can not continue making assumptions more apparent.