Jetharin Kevin Charoenworawat
JKC2237
KChar
KevinCharoenworawat@gmail.com


CS 361 Questions: Week 3

Lecture 53:
1. Then any signature could be taken and applied to any document.
2. Because public key encryption is hard to apply but the hash is usually short/easy.
3. Unforgable, authentic, non-reputable, tamperproof, and non-reusable.

Lecture 54:
1. So that someone who has never been involved with the party in question can gain trust.
2. To create the certificate with X's signature using a small finite data set (hash).
3. In order to create a small signature instead of signing the whole message.
4. Then Y would be mislead as X should not be trusted (invalid certificate).

Lecture 55:
1. There is an unimpeachable authority that began the trust chain.
2. A certificate cannot last forever as a party should be reeavaluated from time to time.
3. Then the signature used on the hash is invalid.

Lecture 56:
1. Any form of encrpytion can be viewed as a protocol as you have steps to follow to ensure an end goal ie. Diffie-Hellman.
2. Then information/data can be leaked/intercepted.
3. Then the first cipher could not be taken off.
4. The attacker must find Ka and Kb from analyzing the dual XOR operations.
5. The attacker just has to spot the first time that the same XOR operation is done.
6. The attacker has to spot the second time that that the same XOR operation is done.
7. A protocol has to be essentially perfect as the slightest problem can be exploited.

Lecture 57:
1. Protocols need to be established so that there is a guideline for operation amongst all internet parties.
2. Cryptographic protocols are important to establish security such as the case for online transactions.
3. A public key infrastructure in place and each has the others public key.
4. To deliver the secret key K.
5. Yes in this simple example.
6. A may never receive the acknowledgement.

Lecture 58:
1. The receiving party must be able to identify which step in the protocol in order to proceed.
2. This can be used to furthur security as this throws off attackers.

Lecture 59:
1. One would have to know the all weak points of a protocol to outline a possible attack.
2. An attacker could throw off the flow of a protocol by confusing the two parties.
3. A DDOS is one example where the attacker simply shuts down a service.
4. The attacker can't compose arbitrary messages as they are assumed to not have the keys.
5. This is because each party should not keep a running log of what is going on, only the messages being transmitted.

Lecture 60:
1. No because the nonces show that the opposite party can correctly decrypt the transmitted message with freshness of the message.
2. 
Step 1: A says to S that it wants to communicate with B using its nonce.
Step 2: S generates a Kab that it generated with the Na nonce. S also includes an encryption to be transmitted to B with Kas.
Step 3: A sends to B what S sent with its encryption.
Step 4: Now B knows A wants to communicate with it so it sends its nonce encrypted with their shared key to A.
Step 5: Now A confirms and establishes the communication channel.

Lecture 61:
1. Yes because the other party would still have communication with the attacker that has the original Kas until A creates a new channel.
2. Yes as security is never gaurenteed.
3. Perhaps periodic refreshes of keys.

Lecture 62:
1. The guarantee that the other party truly is who they claim to be as S uses nonces from each party.
2. Otway-Rees presents the party authentication.
3. Add padding to the message that B receives so that the encryption does not cancel out when B sends out.

Lecture 63:
1. To ensure that a party is not communicating with a spy/attacker.
2. Reasoning about what the principal parties can infer from the messages they receive.
3. The beliefs could be carried out by conditional statements or asserts

Lecture 64: 
1. Logic with propositional and predicates which form the qualifications for a statement.
2. If A receives a message with a key that only B shares with it than the message must have come from B.
3. If A receives a nonce from B and it is fresh than A must think that B knows what it is saying.
4. A takes B's word of trust over X.
5. Idealization attempts to figure out what a message/transaction intends to communicate.  It is needed because there are limitless number of possible messages.

Lecture 65:
1. Because the plaintext does not change the sending principle's validity.
2. Things have to be assumed such as that messages will make it to the other party.
3. By using BAN logic you outline possible risks as you have to interpret messages in terms of beliefs in a secure channel.
