Juan Yu
jay336

CS361 Questions: Week 5

Lecture 66
1. PGP (Pretty good privacy) is a strong encryption in the form of an email encryption system.
2. Phil Zimmermann wanted to provide such an encryption system that was easy to use and accessible to all. 
3. Yes. Enough to even make the FBI and italian police struggle decoding it. 
4. A lot of companies dont like to use freeware because they want parties that are available that they can call on if they require maintenance. 

Lecture 67
1. The sender creates a message and then generates a hash for it. He signs the hash using his private key and prepends the result to the message. The receiver then uses the sender's public key to verify the signature and recover the hash code and generates a new hash code for M and compares it with the decrypted has code. 
2. Sender generates a message M and a random session key K. M is encrypted using the key K and K is encrypted using the recipient's public key, and prepended to the message. The receiver then uses his private key to recover the sessiojn key and uses the key to decrypt the message M. 
3. Apple the authentication protocol to the original message and apply the condidentiality protocol to the resulting message. 

Lecture 68
1. Compression, email compatability, and segmentation.
2. It is done to save bandwidth because the messages may be big. 
3. It is preferable to sign an uncompressed message so that the signature does not depend on the compression algorithm. 
4. To make sure there are no anomolous characters in the message. The radix-64 conversiion mpas groups of three octets into four ASCII characters. It also appends a CRC for data error checking. 
5. Email systems often restrict message length. 

Lecture 69
1. One-time session symmetric keys, public keys, private keys, and passphrase-based symmetric keys.
2. Encryption algorithm E, previous session key, and two n/2-bit blocks generated based on user keystrokes.
3. The two blocks are encrypted using E and the previous key and combine to form the new key. 
4. RSA requires that the keys involve large primes. You need to generate two large primes using a bit of number theory.
5. The user selects a passphrase fopr encrypting private keys. When a new public/private key pair is generated, the system asks for the passphrase.Using SHA-1, a 160-bit hash code is generated from the passphrase, which is discarded. The private key is encrypted using CAST-128 with 128 bits of the hash code as key. The key is then discarded. Whenever the user wants to access the private key, he must supply the passphrase. The private key must be kept private so that an attacker is unable to access it. 

Lecture 70 
1. PGP generates an ID likely to be unique for a given user. Use the least significant 64-bits of the key as the ID. 
2. The user's public/private key pairs and the information used to identify them. It has information regarding the timestamp, the key ID, the public key, private key, and the USER ID.
3. It holds the public keys for other users or correspondants and it includes information such as the timestamp, key ID, public key, and user UD. 
4. Retrive the receiver's encrypted private key from the private-key ring by using the Key ID field in the session key compnannent of the message as an index. The user then inputs the passphrase to recover the unencrypted private key and the recovers the session key and decrypts the message. 
5. It indicates the extent to which PGP trusts that this is a valid public key for this user. 
6. The owner issues a signed key revocation certificate. 

Lecture 71
1. The consumer problem is when an attacker gets logically between the client and the service and somehow disrupts the communication. The producer problem is when an attack produces, offers or requests so many services that the server is overwhelmed. The producer problem is more common. 
2. The SYN Flooding attack happens when an attacker forges the return address on a number of SYN packets. The server fills its table with these half-open connections and all legitimate accesses are denied until the connections time out. 
3. Increasing the server's queue size would consume considerable resources and the attacker can just send more requests. Shortening the time out period might disallow connections by slower clients. Filtering suspicious packets is hard to determine whether the traffic is legitimate. 

Lecture 72
1. A packet filter can detect patterns of identifies in the request stream and block messages in that pattern.
2. An IDS can analyze traffic patterns and react to anomalous patterns. An IDS reacts after the attack has begun. An IPS attempts to prevent intrusions by more aggressively blocking attempted attacks. This assumes that the attacking traffic can be identified. 
3. Over-provisioning the network is having more servers to be overwhelmed but this can be expensive and unworkable. Filtering attack packets distinguish the attack packtes from regular packets (may not be possible). Slow down processing disadvantages all requestors but perhaps disproportionately disadvantages attackers. Speak-up solution request additional traffic from all requestors. 

Lecture 73
1. False negative is a enuine attack that is not detected. Flase positive is when a harmless behaviour is mis-classified as an attack. Which one is a bigger problem depends on the scenario and what you are trying to protect. 
2. An accurate IDS is if it detects all genuine attacks. It is precise if it never reports any legitimate behavior as an attack.
3. It is easy to do either but it is hard to both simultaneously. 
4. Base-Rate in IDS is the percent of actual attacks and the detection accury of the IDS. You can get an approximate of the chance of raising false alarms. 

Lecture 74
1. If the date was between 1st and 19th of the month, it would generate a random list of IP addresses and attempt to infect those machines. On the 20th to the 28th of the month, it would launch a DoS flooding attack on www1.whitehouse.gov and the worm also defaced some webpages with the words "Hacked by Chinese".
2. The worm used a static seed in its random number generator and it generated identical lists of IP addresses on each infected machine and it probled the same list of machines so it spread really slowly. The IP address for www1.whitehouse.gov was changed so the DoS attacked failed.
3. It resided in the volatile memory of the machine and if you reboot the computer and it goes away, but the computer is still vulnurable.
4. The CodeRed version 2 had a random seed in the random number generator. This caused a much greater impact because it spread the worm much more widely. It also wreacked havoc on some additional devices with web interfaces. 

Lecture 75
1. It was not related in anyway except the fact that the contributors knew about Code Red because the code contained the string "CodeRedII".
2. It sets up a "backdoor" to open up more vulnurabilities. This backdoor allows any code to be executed, so the machines could be used as zombies for future attacks. 
3. It attempts to use certain bits from the machines to try and effect machines on the saem network or subnet which are likely to be running similar software. 
4. If there is a large population of unpatched machines, then that means the infections are going to keep circulating.
5. People are really lazy about patching their machines. 

Lecture 76
1. Most customers don't ahve the expertise to perform these steps effectively. A solution is to provide a standardized process of independent evaluation by expert teams to provide a certified level of confidence for security products. 
2. The evaluation standards provides a set of requirements defininf security functionality, a set of assurance requirements needed for establishing functional requirements, a methodology for determing that the ffunctional requirements are met, and a measure of evaluation rresult indicating the trustworthiness of the evaluated system. 
3. Cryptology is a very sensitive area and there aren't as many experts in that area. 
4. Level 1 is basic sercurity where there is at least one approived algorithm or function. Level 2 has improved physical security and tamer-evident packaging. Level 3 has strong tamper-resistance and countermeasures. Level 4 is a complete envelope of protection including immediate zeroing of keys upon tampering. 

Lecture 77
1. It is a secure systems evaluation criteria that has been adopted by some 26 countries.
2. Evaluations accepted by one country should be accept or be common in another country. 
3. At a certain level, countries stop accepting other's evaluations. 
4. A security target is a specific system or family of systems, and a protection profile is a formal description of security for a class of systems.

Lecture 78
1. It weighs the trash containers via short-range radios and stores the information and later transmits it to the government for billing. It must make sure that such messages or ID tags are not altered or disrupted. 
2. To detect invalid ID tags, detect invalid bin-cleared messages, and fault tolerance. 
3. The idea is that if the matrix is filled, then you can determine whether or not the security measures or mechanims have dealt with the threats. 

Lecture 79
1. Its goal is to have no untrusted user on the system and that the OS has reliable time stamps. 
2. It is more specific to the system and what security means for this product. They also note how the product enforces that notion of security. 

Lecture 80
1. EAL is evaluation assurance level and it shows what rigor was applied during the development and testing.
2. Certifying agency or at a certain level, the government. 
3. At higher levels, where it is more sensative, each country may want to have their own criterias that they believe in.
4. Evaluation tests must be performed by an independent organization accredited to perform CC testing. 
5. You need a formal model of security because it is not possible to reverse. 

