Name: Perry Feng
EID: pf4736
CS Login: maxilius
Email: perry_feng@hotmail.com

Original Source: http://www.cs.utexas.edu/~byoung/cs361/questions-week1.pdf

Lecture 1:
1. What uses of the term "security" are relevant to your everyday life?
Well personally the ones that are most relevant to my everyday life is personal security, energy security, operational security, communications security, network security and system security. Personal security I presume in the sense that my own personal well being is secure. We have a police force for that as well as locked doors for our apartments. Energy security so you don't have some hacker just turning off the power and electricity to you. The other ones I mentioned are important because we all connect to the internet and use technologies and it's extremely important that all these are as secure as possible.

2. What do these have in common?
They all are there for the "protection of assets against threats".

3. Have you been a victim of lax security?
Actually yes. I was part of a forum and the forum didn't salt and hash the login information. They actually just kept it plain text. Some hacker got in and hacked pretty much everyone's accounts including mine.

4. What is the likelihood that your laptop is infected? How did you decide?
I'd say for me there is 0% likelihood. First I have a mac. And right there you can eliminate like the majority of the viruses out there which are actually written mostly for windows because of the prevalence of the windows operating system. Second, I never run any .dmg files until I can verify that it comes from an official source. I also don't visit any links that I cannot verify for malicious activity. That's pretty much it and as far as I can tell, there hasn't been any unknown/malicious activity on my laptop.

5. What security measures do you employ on your laptop?
I have an antivirus software that is constantly running in the background.
Whenever I download files, I always upload them to VirusTotal and double check that it doesn't have any viruses. I don't run any executables unless I know that it is from a trustworthy source.

6. Do you think they are probably effective?
For the most part, given that I haven't lost anything or been hacked, I'd say they are pretty effective, unless the OS I'm using is backdoored itself, then I can't do much unfortunately except buy a new computer or install a new OS.

7. Consider the quote from the FBI official on slide 10. Do you think it over-states the case? Justify your answer.
I personally feel that going overboard in something so important actually allows one to better prepare oneself for possible attacks and prevent them. If you set your metapolicies high, I would presume you'd then implement policies in a better, more efficient and secure manner. As a result, there are more security measures in place to counter attacks and prevent them.

8. What is the importance in learning about computer security?
The importance in learning about computer security is enhancing our own protection, contributing to the security in our workspace, enhacing the quality and safety of interpersonal and business transactions, and finally improving overall security in cyberspace.

Lecture 2:
1. Consider the five reasons given why security is hard. Can you think of other factors?
Other factors I can think off the top of my head is that it's expensive. Sometimes you need to hire professionals if you have a big software that needs checking and cost may be involved. Also, most of the time machines are built with damage control in mind simply because you are never fully sure that your system is fully secure until the next flaw arises. That's why when taking into consideration most systems take into damage minimization into account. Think of the heartbleed bug. No one thought of that until it was found out by a group of hired professionals. One could exploit it without leaving a single trace. Who knows if other people have been exploiting the heartbleed bug before. It never leaves any trace so sometimes even if something appears "secure", the fact that it's so hard is that at the same time you're not 100% fully sure that it is secure even if it appears so. It may be an illusion sometimes. Another factor is that there is a tradeoff and oftentimes introducing security measures may hinder other parts like usability and efficiency.

2. Is there a systematic way to enumerate the "bad things" that might happen to a program? Why or why not?
There is to an extent. You can always go step by step in your system and figure out which areas there are user and system interactions and look into those. Places like authentication or integrity would be good places to look at. But honestly, sometimes there is no systematic way because most of the time it depends what your end goal is and what purpose the assets you're trying to protect serves. Just like mentioned in the slides, a programmer has to fix all known vulnerabilities, but the attacker only needs to find one. This is really hard if the system/program becomes massive and complex. In security, not only do you have to find "bugs" that make the system behave differently than expected, you have to identify any features of the system that are susceptible to misuse and abuse, even if your programs behave exactly as you expect them to.

3. Explain the asymmetry between the defender and attacker in security.
There is a huge asymmetry between the defender and attacker. The defender sees it kind of like a wall with a bunch of holes that it needs to plug while the attacker only needs to find one hole to enter and they win. In other words, the defender must plug and fix all known exploits. Of course if an exploit is unknown to the defender, the defender will not fix it. Which is why if the attacker finds an unknown exploit or in other words a hole, they are able to attack and penetrate easily. It's like leaving the window open. It doesn't matter how many alarms you put on the other side of the house, the house is only as secure as it's weakest link.

4. Examine the quotes from Morris and Chang. Do you agree? Why or why not?
I agree that it's the only way to ensure complete computer security but I disagree that it's the best thing to do because that would defeat the purpose of having computers in the first place. If you're going to introduce full computer security by not even using the computer, then there's no point. You might as well not invent computers in the first place. 

5. Explain the statement on slide 8 that a tradeoff is typically required.
Essentially what it is saying is that for the most part introducing security also hinders other goals like efficiency and usability. For example, if the OS is checking every 30 minutes if you're computer has a virus and let's say you're playing a game at the same time, every 30 minutes you might experience a lag in gameplay. Sure the antivirus software is to check for viruses, it also has a tradeoff in this case both efficiency and usability. However this is a stretched example which normally doesn't happen. There are times where the tradeoff is necessary because the security and tradeoffs included outweight the risks that come with an unsecure system.

Lecture 3:
1. Define "risk"?
Risk is the possibillity that a particular threat will adversely impact an information system by exploiting a particular vulnerability.

2. Do you agree that software security is about managing risk?
I agree. Systems are built by humans and by default humans are flawed. No one's perfect and as a result, no code is perfect. There are always possible openings that hackers can try to get into. It's like an evolving process. As weaknesses are found and exploited, the security improves. No one can know certain that something is fully secure but one can certainly minimize it by closing out all security gaps that are known to be penetratable. 

3. Name and explain a risk you accept, one you avoid, one to mitigate, and one you transfer?
Well personally I buy stock. I know there is a possibility of total loss but I also know that if I profit I will profit a lot so the possibility to profit a lot outweighs the risk of losing it all. One risk I avoid is getting hacked on all my accounts so I tend to use different passwords for every site I use. One risk mitigation would be installing an anti virus. If a program acts up, my anti virus can stop it and prevent further damage. I have car insurance for risk transfer so if my car gets wrecked, my insurance company can pay either fully or partially to fix it.

4. Evaluate annualized loss expectancy as a risk management tool. 
It computes the expected value of any security expenditure. I'd say it's a fair model because it gives you the percentage of one amount possibly loss might happen and multiplies that by the loss to give you a good idea of how much you could be losing a year from that. Doing so gives you a good idea of where you should focus your resources on. 

5. List some factors relevant to rational risk assessment.
How technical it needs to be. Amount of potential loss (economical). What are the potentially psychological damages etc.

Lecture 4:
1. Explain the key distinction between the lists on slides 2 and 3.
The list on slide 2 is the metapolicies while the list on slide 3 are the policies to deal with the system wide overall goal (metapolicies).


2. Consider your use of computing in your personal life. Which is most important: confidentiality, integrity, availability? Justify your answer. 
For me availability is most important. In this day and age we are always connected to the internet and for me to find either the internet not working or a specific site that I need desperately at any given moment is pretty bad.

3. What does it mean "to group and categorize data"?
Grouping and categorizing data would be separating the data into different groups and different classification levels. For example, like we did in class where certain documents were grouped into Top Secret, secret, unclassified etc.

4. Why might authorizations change over time?
If a user might have a promotion then authorization may change. A certain type of information might not be sensitive anymore. Also,
If a high level rank war official for example decides to retire and become a civilian, we need to provide some sort of security in place that there is no residual information in that he doesn't carry any documents or files with him, essentially a write down violating the star property. 

5. Some of the availability questions seem to relate more to reliability than to security. How are the two related?
Typically when something is available most of the time, it tends to be realiable. Take a site for example that never goes down, despite DoS. That site is reliable in the sense that it has security in place to prevent DoS from bringing down the site, thus being able to provide information to users whenever.

6. In what contexts would authentication and non-repudiation be considered important?
In contexts where transactions happen like Amazon. Amazon needs to first authenticate you by having you login and make a purchase. They also need a non-repudiation in place to note that they received the money and not that it was sent to some random guy in russia.

Lecture 5:
1. Describe a possible metapolicy for a cell phone network? A military database?
A metapolicy for a cell phone network would be to make sure that communication is secure between towers and not leaked out. Similarly for a military database, the database does leak out any information.

2. Why do you need a policy if you have a metapolicy?
The policy is a system-specific refinement of the metapolicy adequate th provide guidance to developers and users of the system. In other words, it's the implementation to serve the overall purpose.

3. Give three possible rules within a policy concerning students' academic records.
Students can only view grades, not change them. Students' academic records must be kept in a secure storage. Changing grades must have a certain level of authentication, as well as a record of everything they did in case if misuse can always go back and track who did it.

4. Could stakeholders' interest conflict in a policy? Give an example.
For sure. If the metapolicy is to have a secure system by upgrading the system to more secure software which costs money, stakeholders might not be happy if they want the money to be spent in other areas like company expansion.

5. For the example given involving student SSNs, state the likely metapolicy.
The likely metapolicy is to preventing the leak of student's private information/identity theft (which is a plausible larger issue at hand).

6. Explain the statement: "If you don't understand the metapolicy, it becomes difficult to justify and evaluate the policy."
It's essentially stating that if you don't have the overall goal at hand, justifying why you're doing something and how well/purpose of it is hard. 

Lecture 6:
1. Why is military security mainly about confidentiality? Are there also aspects of integrity and availability?
Military security is mainly about confidentiality because it's mostly not allowing certain people/groups from viewing certain documents. Integrity is also important. You don't want some random teenager writing your war plans. On the other hand, you want to make sure your war plans are actually available to be read when it's time to take action. However, confidentiality is the main issue here at hand. No one wants their top secret plans given to the enemy.

2. Describe the major threat in our MLS thought experiment.
The major threat would be if information leaked out from one level to another from top up. In other words, someone from a lower classification level could read upwards. Imagine a janitor reading the war plans.

3. Why do you think the proviso is there?
This is important because all these metapolicies only deal with confidentiality of information. If we're concerned with the ability for a school kid to write war plans for the USA, then that would be an integrity problem and we'd have a whole different set of policies for that. 

4. Explain the form of the labels we're using.
Labels contain a hierarchical component and a set of categories.

5. Why do you suppose we're not concerned with how the labels get there?
It's concerns with different policies. 


6. Rank the facts listed on slide 6 by sensitivity.
high sensitivity - Normandy invasion on June 6, The British have broken the German Enigma codes.
Medium sensitivity - Col. Jones just got a raise. Col. Smith didn't get a raise.
low sensitivity - the base softball team has game tmr, the cafeteria is serving chopped beef on toast today.

7. Invent labels for documents containing each of those facts.
Top secret = high sensitivity
Secret = Medium sensitivty
Unclassified = low sensitifity

8. Justify the rules for "mixed" documents.
The first rule is if two different documents of different appropriate level is mixed together, always put a sensitivity of the highest level of whichever file on there. This makes sense because in doing so preserves the sensitivity of the highest documents and that is part of the meta policy. If they both are files of the same sensitivity it would also make sense that in order to view them, you have be cleared to view both documents in order to view both. 

Lecture 7:
1. Document labels are stamped on the outside. How are "labels" affixed to humans?
We need a hierarchical security level indicating the degree of trustworthiness to which he or she has been vetted. Also we need a set of "need-to-know categories" indicating domains of interest in which he or she is authorized to operate. 

2. Explain the difference in semantics of labels for documents and labels for humans.
Labels on documents indicate the sensitivity of the contained information. "labels" on humans indicate classes of information that person is authorized to access.

3. In the context of computers what do you think are the analogues of documents? Of humans?
Documents are files and humans are users and processes.

4. Explain why the Principle of Least Privilege makes sense.
It makes sense because because in order the minimization of any information leakage or possibility to undermine the security of the system, anybody should only be given what they need to do their job. For example, in order for a janitor to do his work, he only needs a mop and some cleaning equipment. He doesn't also need the war plans.


5. For each of the pairs of labels on slide 6, explain why the answers in the third column do or do not make sense.
The first one makes sense because it is a simple read down due to the simple security policy because Secret > Confidential and {Crypto} is a superset of {Crypto}. The second one isn't possible because Secret < Top Secret. The last one is possible because Secret > Unclassified and {Nuclear} is a superset of {}.

Lecture 8:
1. Why do you think we introduced the vocabulary terms: objects, subjects, actions?
In order to better describe the policy better. In doing so we're able to understand better in that the subjects perform actions on the subjects. Better generalize the concepts and better implement your algorithm.

2. Prove that dominates is a partial order(reflective, transitive, antisymmetric).
Dominates order is a partial order because it's reflective, transitive, and antisymmetric. 

Given security levels H, M, and L.
Reflectivity is: H = H, M = M, and L = L.
Transitivity is if H > M and M > L then H > L
If H >= M, M != >= H

3. Show that dominates is not a total order.
For it to be total order instead of reflective it needs to have totality.
There are security levels A and B, such that neither A >= B nor B >= A.

4. What would have to be true for two labels to dominate each other?
In order for two labels to dominate each other, they both need to be at the same hierarchical level as well as have the exact same sets.

5. State informally what the Simple Security property says.
It's stating that as long as a subject has the higher clearance than the file classification and that the files at the classification level it wants to read is included in the files that it's allowed to read, then it is allowed to read. In othe words, a subject can only read at it's level and down, never up.

6. Explain why it's "only if" and not "if and only if."
It is not "if and only if" because these are not the only reasons to a read because we might want other restrictions on a read for elsewhere/some other time.
A necessary condition but not a sufficient condition because there might also be security measures.

Lecture 9:
1. Why isn't Simple Security enough to ensure confidentiality?
Because a high level subject can always write downwards. This does not violate simple security as that only deals with read restrictions, however confidentiality is compromised still because you're now allowing write downs, violating the star property.

2. Why do we need constraints on write access?
This is needed to prevent confidentiality breaches. We dono't want possible leaks, especially write downs about war plans.

3. What is it about computers, as opposed to human beings, that makes that particularly important?
Controlling write access is especially crucial for computers because the accessing subject may be a program executing on behalf of a user. The user has been cleared; the program has not. For example, you could have a malware running on your computer on your behalf.

4. State informally what the *-Property says.
Pretty much what it means is that information cannot flow down. It can only flow to the same level or above. 

5. What must be true for a subject to have both read and write access to an object?
The subject must be at the same classification/sensitivity level as well as subject must be able to read and only read the exact same files in the file classification level. In other words (Ls, Cs) = (Lo, Co).

6. How could we deal with the problem that the General(top secret) can't send orders to the private(Unclassified)?
Give the general a low clearance level account to send emails to the private and trust that he doesn't divulge anything high level through that low level account.

7. Isn't it a problem that a corporal can overwrite the war plan? Suggest how we might deal with that.
Just don't give any corporal the clearance to edit war plans.


Lecture 10:
1. Evaluate changing a subject's level (up or down) in light of weak tranquility.
Subject's level can change in light of weak tranquility as long as it is in a way that violates the "spirit" of the security policy. It is extremely desirable as it allows the systems to observe the principle of least privilege. That is, processes start with a low clearance level regardless of their owners clearance, and progressively accumate higher clearance levels as actions require it. 
(Source: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bell%E2%80%93LaPadula_model)


2. Why not just use strong tranquility all the time? Strong tranquility is very restrictive. For example, if a user needs to operate at different levels during the course of the day, they won't be able to.

3. Explain why lowering the level of an object may be dangerous.
Lowering the level of an object may be dangerous because doing so is essentially a write down and depending on the subject of that object for example if it was war plans, that could be disastrous. 

4. Explain what conditions must hold for a downgrade(lowering object level) to be secure.
When the object is no longer deemed necessary at that classified level. For example, DDAY War plans were once classified but once it was carried out and after a certain time period after the war the information can be released to the public because there is no longer a need to have it labeled classified anymore because it's already passed and winning the war has a lot to do with that I presume.


Level 11:
1. Suppose you wanted to build a (library) system in which all subjects had read access to all files, but write access to none of them. What levels could you give to subjects and objects?
All subjects are high level and all objects are low level. 

2. Why wouldn't you usually build an access control matrix for a BLP system?
Most realistic BLP systems are huge so it would be a large matrix.


Lecture 12:
1. Suppose you had hierarchical levels L, H with L < H, but only had one category A. Draw the lattice. (Use your keyboard and editor to draw it; it doesn't have to be fancy.)

                               H{A}<-----H{}
                                ^         ^
                                |         |
                               L{A}       |
                                ^         |
                                |         |
                               L{} --------



2. Given any two labels in a BLP system, what is the algorithm for finding their LUB and GLB?
For LUB, take the highest hierarchical level out of the two and for the categories take the superset of both of them.

For GLB take the lowest hierarchical level out of the two and for the categories get the smallest set that is the subset of both sets.

For example, For (H{A}) and (H{B}), for LUB the highest of both is H and the superset of {A,B} so therefore LUB is (H{A,B}). For GLB the lowest is also H and the set that is the subset of both is {} so therefore GLB is (H{}).


3. Explain why upward flow in the lattice really is the metapolicy for BLP.
Because we only want write ups in order to preserve the simple security property.

Lecture 13:
1. Explain how the BLP rules are supposed to enforce the metapolicy in the example on slide 2.
The BLP rules are supposed to enforce the metapolicy which prevents information from flowing upwards from high level to low level. L ---> H means information can only flow in one direction upwards in the BLP lattice, thus preserving the metapolicy.


2. Argue that the READ and WRITE operations given satisfy BLP.
READ satisfies BLP because you can only read at your level or down.
WRITE satisfies BLP because you can only write at your level or aabove.

3. Argue that the CREATE and DESTROY operations given satisfy BLP.
CREATE satisfies BLP because you're writing at your level, not downwards.
DESTROY satisfies BLP because you are writing at your level or upwards as well 


4. What has to be true for the covert channel on slide 5 to work?
The operations for both has to be in the same order. SL must have the same operations and SH operations (CREATE and do nothing) must come before the SL operations in order for SL to receive bits that SH wants to pass. 

5. Why is the DESTROY statement there?
So the process can repeat and H can keep sending bits to L.

6. Are the contents of any files different in the two paths?
No. It doesn't matter the location. What matters is whether the file has been created or not.

7. Why does SL Do the same thing in both cases? Must it?
It does the same in both cases because it doesn't know what H will send. Keeping SL's operations constant, H is able to send information by varying it's own operations.

8. Why does SH do different things? Must it?
In order to send different bits of information, SL's operations must be kept constant and H can do vary it's own operations in order to send different messages to SL. So it's the modifer of the shared resource. SL is the one that references that shared resource to grab the information that SL wants to send.

9. Justify the statement on slide 7 that begins. "IF SL ever sees..."
It violates the metapolicy because this would be considered a write down, which is against the star property. 

Lecture 14:
1. Explain why "two human users talking over coffee is not a covert channel."
The definition of a covert channel is a path for the illegal flow of information between subjects within a system, utilizing system resources that were not designed to be used for inter-subject communication. Therefore, two human users talking over coffee is not a covert channel because you're suppose to talk over coffee. The coffee shop is designed for legal flow of information.

2. Is the following a covert channel? Why or why not?
(some code here get from the pdf file here page 5: http://www.cs.utexas.edu/~byoung/cs361/questions-week1.pdf)
It's not a covert channel because it doesn't even follow BLP if low level can read higher level.

3. Where does the bit of information transmitted "reside" in Covert Channel #1?
The bit of information transmitted "reside" in the type of error message that is received or in other words the system state. It is torage covert channel.

4. In Covert Channel #2?
The bit of information resides in the system clock, or in other words, the ordering or duration of events on the system.

5. In Covert Channel #3?
Bit resides on the location on the disk it was last read from so it is a storage channel.

6. In Covert Channel #4?
The bit is stored in l, or in other words, the dependcy it has on h.

7. Why might a termination channel have low bandwidth?
Because you have to have a noticeable difference between quick termination and slow termination to pass on different bits. Therefore this takes longer times (aka low bandwidth).

8. What would have to be true to implement a power channel?
Must to have a way to measure power usage. SL must be able to tell a difference based on the fluctuation of the power output and SL must have access to this.

9. For what sort of devices might power channels arise?
Any device which can affect the power source/fluctuation of power and where the lower subject can read the power output passed by high level and receive information. For example a smart card reader. (A key that takes longer to decipher and a key that takes shorter to decipher).

Lecture 15:
1. Explain why covert channels, while appearing to have such a low bandwidth, can potentially be very serious threats.
Covert channels with low bandwidth don't give away their position. Therefore it is pretty dangerous because there might be covert channels which someone is exploiting but since the bandwidth is so low the administrator or people running the "secure" system doesn't notice and no red flags are raised. 


2. Why would it be infeasible to eliminate every potential covert channel? 
Systems are complex. It's hard to detect and completely eliminate all potential covert channels. It's mostly about damage control and risk mitigation.

3. If detected, how could one respond appropriately to a covert channel?
We can eliminate it by modifying the system implementation. We can reduce the bandwidth by introducing noise into the channel. We can monitor it for patterns of usage that indicate someone is trying to exploit it. This is instrusion detection.

4. Describe a scenario in which a covert storage channel exists.
Attempted access by SL to a high level resource returns one of two error messages. Resource not found or Access denied. By modulating the status of the resource, SH can send a bit of information on each access attempt by SL. 

5. Describe how this covert storage channel can be utilized by the sender and receiver.
Let's assume that getting Resource not found is 0 and Access denied is 1. For example if SH wants to send the bit 0, he would not create the object. SL would then try to read it and get a resource not found because it hasn't be created therefore SL knows SH wants to send a 0. Now if SH wants to send a 1 it just has to create the object and if SL read it, because it doesn't have the clearance level to read it AND the object is there, access will be denied and that message will be returned so therefore SL knows that SH is sending a 1 to it.

Lecture 16:
1. Why wouldn't the "create" operation have an R in the SRMM for the "file existence" attribute?
Because it doesn't provide any information if the create is successful or not. Just says if object with name O already exists do nothing.

2. Why does an R and M in the same row of an SRMM table indicate a potential channel? 
Because this is a place where there is a possibility where both sender and receive have access to some attribute of a shared object and where the sender is able to modify the attribute and the receiver is able to reference that shared attribute. A mechanism for intiating both processes, and sequencing their accesses to the shared resource must also exist.

3. If an R and M are in the same column of an SRMM table, does this also indicate a potential covert channel? Why or why not?
It does not also indicate a potential covert channel because you are not modifying and referencing the same attribute so no communication is possible.

4. Why would anyone want to go through the trouble to create an SRMM table?
It can be used to identify possible locations to look for covert channe
ls. It provides a systematic way to investigate potential covert channels.


