Nathan Park
ncp299
ncpark92
nathan.c.park@gmail.com

CS361 Questions: Week 5

Lecture 66

1. PGP is "pretty good privacy" which is the closest thing there is to military-grade encryption.

2. Zimmerman had a strong distrust of the government and believed strongly that everyone had an absolute right to privacy.

3. PGP provides effective security because it uses the best available cryptographic algorithms as building blocks.

4. You would purchase this freeware for the support which is what most businesses like to see.


Lecture 67

1. In authentication, the sender creates a message M and generates a hash of it. He signs the hash with his private key and sends it to the receiver who generates the hash code and compares it to the decrypted hash code.

2. In confidentiality, the sender generates a message M and session key K. M is encrypted using K and then K is encrpyted using the receiver's public key. Receiver retrieves the session key and then uses that key to decrypt the message.

3. You just apply the authentication step to the message and apply the confidentiality step to that result.


Lecture 68

1. PGP provides compression, email compartibility, and segmentation.

2. Encrpytion after compression strengthens the encryption since compression reduces the redundancy.

3. It is done in this order so that the signature does not depend on the compression algorithm.

4. Encrypted text contains arbitrary 8-bit octets but many email systems choke on certain bit strings they interpret as control commands.

5. Email systems often restrict message length so PGP automatically segments messages that are too long.


Lecture 69

1. The four keys used by PGP are session keys, public keys, private keys, and passphrase-based keys.

2. Session keys are associated with a single message and used only once.

3. They are generated using an encrpytion algorthm which affects the key size.

4. An odd number is generated and tested for primality. 

5. Private keys are stored encrypted with a user-supplied passphrase.


Lecture 70

1. PGP's solution to this problem is to generate an ID likely to be unique for a given user.

2. On the private key ring are 5 fields: Timestamp, key ID, public key, private key, and user ID.

3. On the public key ring are 4 fields: Timestamp, Key ID, Public key, and User ID.

4. PGP retrieves the receiver's encrpyted private key from the private-key ring. PGP prompts the user for the passphrase in order to get the key and then PGP recovers the session key and decrypts the message.

5. The key legitmacy field indicates the degree to which PGP trusts that this is a valid public key for the user. 

6. A key is revoked when the owner issues a signed key revocation certificate.


Lecture 71

1. The consumer problem is when the attacker gets in between the client and service while the producer problem is when the attacker makes so many requests that is server is overwhelmed. The producer problem is more prevalent.

2. SYN flooding occurs when an attacker forges the return address so that the server is filled with half open requests.

3. These solutions end up being too costly  or too inefficient to apply and may even cause DOS attacks inadvertently to themselves. 


Lecture 72

1. If you can determine the malicious packets and just filter them out then you will not have the problems of DOS.

2. IDS is a reactionary defense mechanism while IPS is a defense mechanism that actively blocks attacking traffic, trying to prevent the attack before it happens.

3. Over-provision the network - you just have so many servers that they cannot overwhelm you with traffic
   Filtering attack packets - distingish between good and bad packets so that you can filter them
   slow down processing - disadvantage all requestors but the attacks are the ones that will be mainly affected
   "Speak up" solution - request additional traffic from all requestors


Lecture 73

1. False negatives are where a real attack goes un detected and false positives are where halmless traffic is labeled as an attack. I would say that false negatives are the bigger problem because its an attack that goes through instead of just alienating some clients on accident.

2. Accurate means all attacks are detected and precise means that legitimate behavior is not labeled as an attack.

3. You can label all traffic as attacks or all traffic as safe but its hard to make the distinction between the two accurately and precisely.

4. Just because the accuracy is high (e.g. 90%) does not mean that IDS is actually doing a good job. There can be false positives up to 92%.


Lecture 74

1. Code Red attempted to DOS the whitehouse by infecting computers and using the zombies to attack.

2. It was ineffective because the infection rate of computers was slow and because the whitehouse knew of the attack and simply changed their ip address.

3. The worm was can be removed just by rebooting the computer because it was in temporary memory space.

4. Code Red version 2 was much better because it used a random seed to generate target computers which meant that it spread much faster.


Lecture 75

1. Code Red II was related because of a string that mentioned CodeRedII in its code.

2. If you attacked a computer on the same network the chances of an infection were higher.

3. Code Red II attempted to gain backdoor access to computers so that it could have a botnet of zombie computers.

4. The internet is an unsafer place because of the large number of machines that do not have the patch.

5. The breaches are easily preventable but people seem to be incredibly ignorant or lazy of the solution.


Lecture 76

1. They are useful because most customers do not have the expertise to perform these  steps effectively.

2. The components are: a set of requirements defining security funtionality, a set of assurance requirements, a methodology for determining that the functional requirements are met, and a measure of the evaluation result indicating the trustworthiness of the evaluated system.

3. They have a separate evaluation mechanism because the NSA's approval is required.

4. Level 1: basic security
   Level 2: improved physical security, tamper-evident packaging
   Level 3: strong tamper-resistance and countermeasures
   Level 4: complete envelope of protection


Lecture 77

1. The Common Criteria is a set of documents which show what evaluations are accepted by the signing countries.

2. The common refers to the fact that the evaluation standards are the same to all countries.

3. The evaluation only goes to level 4 so country specific rules are needed.

4. PP is a set of implementation-independent security requirements for a category of products or systems. ST is the actual evalution in practice.


Lecture 78

1. The PP attemps to outline the protocols in place to gather data and the threats to the data collection. 

2. The purpose is to eventually map the threats and assumptions to security objectives and requirements.

3. This is the mapping which allows you to see what the objectives are for each threat.


Lecture 79

1. The ST maps the security requirements to subfunctions and shows you how threats are countered.

2. The PP gives you an idea of what to look out for and what to expect while the ST gives you the actual results of how the security works.


Lecture 80

1. EALs are evaluation assurance levels and they give you an idea of how thorough an evaluation is.

2. The government of a country performs these evaluations and sometimes they give the responsibilities to independent organizations.

3. EALs higher than 4 are not part of the Common Criteria so countries place relative value on these.

4. Vendors cannot certify themselves because they can falsify their reports for their own benefits.

5. You could make a mistake or interpret something wrongly which would compromise the integrity of the evaluation.