CS 361 Week 5 Questions

Name: Joey Caudill
EID: JJC2828
CS Login: JJC2828
Email: jjc2011@gmail.com

Lecture 66

1.	"The closest you’re likely to get to military-grade encryption." A general-purpose algorithm that is easy to use.
	
2.	Zimmermann had a strong distrust of the government, and believed strongly that everyone had an absolute right to privacy

3.	Yes

4.	Some companies may want a party that they purchase the support from, in order to get maintenance and help

Lecture 67

1.	The receiver gets the hash of the message with the private key of the sender, so the receiver knows that the sender is who sent it.

2.	Sender uses a key which it sends along with the message to encrypt the message, the key is encrypted with the receiver's public key so only the receiver can decrypt to get the key to decrypt the message.

3.	You apply the authentication step to the original message and then apply the conﬁdentiality step to the resulting message.

Lecture 68

1.	Compression, email compatibility, and segmentation

2.	Save bandwidth

3.	You don't want the signature to depend on the compression algorithm

4.	Everything is converted to ASCII, then it is easier to convert and handle.

5.	It segments them so each piece is not too long, then reassembles the segments.

Lecture 69

1.	Session: used for symmetric encryption
	Public: used for asymmetric enryption
	Private: used for asymmetric encryption
	Passphrase-based: used to protect private keys

2.	A chosen encryption algoithm and a fixed length for the key

3.	Randomly generated bit strings, high entropy

4.	2 for each

5.	Passphrase-based keys, you have to encrypt your private keys or else anyone who gets access to your disk can steal your private key

Lecture 70

1.	You also send along the last 64 bits of the corresponding public key

2.	Timestamp, key ID, public key, private key, user ID

3.	Timestamp, Key ID, Public Key, User ID

4.	Use the key ID as an index , find the private-key ring, find the private key, enter passphrase to recover unencrypted private key

5.	It indicates the extent to which PGP trusts that this is a valid public key for this user

6.	The owner issues a signed key revocation certiﬁcate. Recipients are expected to update their public-key rings.

Lecture 71

1.	The consumer problem means someone attacks the consumer and gets between them and the service, the producer problem is when someone attacks the server, by overwhelming it. Producer problem is more common.

2.	An attacker forges the return address on a number of SYN packets. The server fills it table with these half-open connections.

3.	Could consume resources, might disallow connections by slower clients, and may be hard to determine

Lecture 72

1.	It disregards incoming packets that it thinks are not legitimate requests

2.	IDS reacts after the attack has begun, IPS tries to prevent an attack before the attack has begun
	
3.	Over-provisioning the network means you have so many servers that it can't be overwhelmed, Filtering attack packets means you someohow distinguish the attack packes from good ones, Slow down processing means it will disadvatage all attackers as well as requestors, "Speak-up" solution means you request more packets when under attack.

Lecture 73

1.	False positive means harmless attack is mis-classified as an attack, False negative means a genuine attack is not detected. The bigger problemdepends upon the scenario of your system.

2.	Accurate means it detects all legitimate attacks, no false negatives
	Precise means it never reports legitimate behavior as attacks, no false positives

3.	You can report everything is an attack or nothing is an attack, so you can easily have either, but what you want is both.

4.	Where the percentage of attacks is much less than the pecentage of times the alarm for an attack is raised, it means you will have a lot of false positives which could cause your system to slow down for no reason.

Lecture 74
	
1.	Attempt to infect machines for the first ~20 days of the month, then for the last ~10 it would try to flood the whitehouse website  and display "hacked by the chinese"
	
2.	Worm used a static seed in its random number generator, so many of the IP addresses attacked were reattacked, small volume. All you had to do to get rid of the infection was reboot.

3.	A machine can be disinfected by simply rebooting, less machines will be infected, less effective.

4.	The volume of hosts infected much greater and probes sent to new hosts caused even more to be infected.

Lecture 75

1.	There is no way to know that they are connected, but they both were worms used to infect a large scale of machines. Used the same vulnerability that CodeRed1 did.

2.	That way a even larger number of machines get infected.

3.	Setup "backdoors" on machines, so you can have remote acccess to the machine.

4.	It means the worm is going to keep circulating amongst these infected machines.

5.	It shows that we must do a better job at patching our machines when the patches become available.

Lecture 76

1.	It allows a consumer to see if something is secure even though they are not experts in the subject.

2.	You have a set of requirements for security functionality and assurance, methodology for determining these, and a measure of the results indicating the trustworthiness of the system.

3.	That way you can keep the evaluation and the details for the requirements seperate and clear.

4.	1:	basic, at least 1 approved algorithm
	2:	improved, tamper-evident packaging
	3:	stronger tamper-resistance and countermeasures
	4:	complete security, including immediate zeroing of keys upon tampering

Lecture 77

1.	Criteria used for secure system evaluation

2.	Common among the 26 adopted countries

3.	Country specific issues that need to be addressed

4.	Document describing a security policy versus the evaluation of a specific system

Lecture 78

1.	Weigh the trash collected, store information, and later transmit it to the government offices for billing.

2.	Each part of the protection profile makes sure that the goals are being met and that the potential threats are being taken care of.

3.	Show what threats are being met with a mechanism and what each mechanism is used for.

Lecture 79

1.	Manage user access privileges stored in directory service, stop threats to the system

2.	More system specific than the protection profile

Lecture 80

1.	Where the vendor provides some level of the detailed evidence that they followed the design and testing for a policy, provides assurance of the rigor applied during development and test

2.	The vendor

3.	Some countries are more or less strict than others, so they don't trust the high levels of another country.

4.	No, the government needs to say that they believe that the evaluation was done correctly and passed. Otherwise they could claim any level they want.

5.	Because it would mean the system is less secure 