CS361 WEEK 1 QUESTIONS
Name: Jess Khine
EID: JNK375
CS Login: JNK375
Email: jess.khine@aol.com

LECTURE 1

1. What uses of the term security are relevant to your everyday life?

	Communications Security (e-mail, skype, etc.)
	Network Security (logging into websites)
	System Security (logging into My Personal Computer)

2. What do these have in common?

	All require protection of an asset.

3. Have you been a victim of lax security?

	Actually just a few days ago my AOL mail got hacked... Sent spam to all my contacts.

4. What is the likelihood that your laptop is infected? How did you decide?

	It's most likely infected. I do a virus scan every week or so and consistently find a decent amount of malware, mostly with a small threat level like adware.

5. What security measures do you employ on your laptop?

	A virus scanner/firewall and a spyware/adware scanner.	

6. Do you think they are probably effective?

	I hope so.

7. Consider the quote from the FBI official on slide 10. Do you think it over-states the case? Justify your answer.

	I don't think it overstates the case at all.
	I would agree with it. Everything is digital nowadays, a skilled
	hacker could potentially do tremendous amounts of damage.

8. What is the importance in learning about computer security?

	It can increase the level of security of our programs,
	thereby increasing the security of the company's assets.

LECTURE 2

1. Consider the ?ve reasons given why security is hard. Can you think of other
factors?

	Hmm those 5 seem to cover the most important I honestly can't think of any.

2. Is there a systematic way to enumerate the bad things that might happen
to a program? Why or why not?

	No because security is different for any given problem. The variety of
	attacks that can happen is different for each situation.

3. Explain the asymmetry between the defender and attacker in security.

	An attacker just has to find one point of entry to succeed, whereas
	a defender has to think about every possible threat.

4. Examine the quotes from Morris and Chang. Do you agree? Why or why
not?

	Yeah I agree, their point is that there is no such thing as true 	security. I believe that there will always be a vulnerable point, our 	job is to ensure that the number of vulnerable points is as small as
	possible.

5. Explain the statement on slide 8 that a tradeoff is typically required.

	The statement refers to how an increase in security usually has
	negative effects on other aspects of the program. For example,
	simplicity. The complexity of a program increases significantly
	with the introduction of security. For efficiency, the security
	measures might slow down the run-time of the program.

LECTURE 3

1. De?ne risk?

	Risk is the possibility that a particular threat will adversely 
	impact an information system by exploiting a particular vulnerability.

2. Do you agree that software security is about managing risk?

	Yes

3. Name and explain a risk you accept, one you avoid, one you mitigate, and
one you transfer?

	A risk you accept is known by the company but is accepted.
	A risk you avoid refers to an action that would be risky to complete.
	A risk that you mitigate would be taking action to lessen the impact
		of losses as a result of the risk.
	A risk that you transfer refers to a risk that is transferred to
		something besides the company.

4. Evaluate annualized loss expectancy as a risk management tool.

	Seems okay but doesn't fit into all security problems.

5. List some factors relevant to rational risk assessment.

	The incidence percentage and the amount of money lost per incidence.

LECTURE 4

1. Explain the key distinction between the lists on slides 2 and 3.

	The topics on slide 3 are subtopics of the ones on slide 2. They
	all eventually refer to the topics on slide 2 in some aspect.

2. Consider your use of computing in your personal life. Which is most important: confidentiality, integrity, availability? Justify your answer.

	Integrity, for when I log in to websites such as UT Direct, or blackboard.

3. What does it mean to group and categorize data?

	Organize data into types to differentiate data based on information.

4. Why might authorizations change over time?

	Say someone gets promoted or a document loses/gains importance.

5. Some of the availability questions seem to relate more to reliability than to security. How are the two related?

	They seem very similar, both topics refer to up-time of a resource.

6. In what contexts would authentication and non-repudiation be considered
important?

	For example when buying an item on a website, authentication would ensure that the
	correct person was buying an item as well as the person is buying from a reliable
	retailer. Non-repudiation would ensure that neither parties can deny their
	involvement or responsibilities once the transaction has been processed.

LECTURE 5

1. Describe a possible metapolicy for a cell phone network? A military database?

	To protect the phone calls and text messages sent across the cell phone network.
	To protect certain files from being viewed by unauthorized personnel.

2. Why do you need a policy if you have a metapolicy?

	A metapolicy is the general goal of the security sytem. A policy just elaborates
	on achieving protection of a specific part and follows the metapolicy.

3. Give three possible rules within a policy concerning students academic
records.

	A student cannot change his/her own grades.
	A student can view his/her own grades.
	A professor is able to modify a student's grades.

4. Could stakeholders interest conflict in a policy? Give an example.

	Yes. The implementation of a security solution might affect another part of the
	program in a negative way.

5. For the example given involving student SSNs, state the likely metapolicy.

	To protect the student's SSN's from being released to unauthorized persons.

6. Explain the statement: If you dont understand the metapolicy, it becomes difficult to justify and evaluate the policy.

	Without the understanding of the main goal of the security system, it will be hard to 
	think about the specific security measures to implement.

LECTURE 6

1. Why is military security mainly about confidentiality? Are there also aspects of integrity and availability?

	The military regards ranking of personnel as its most important aspect. Yes there are
	also aspects of integrity and availability.

2. Describe the major threat in our MLS thought experiment.

	The war plan being exposed to the wrong people.

3. Why do you think the proviso is there?

	To emphasize the importance of who can access documents in security.

4. Explain the form of the labels were using.

	Sensitivity labels, which indicates the ranking of information.

5. Why do you suppose were not concerned with how the labels get there?

	The Principle of Least Privilege learned later means we don't need to know ^_^?

6. Rank the facts listed on slide 6 by sensitivity.

	Descending order: Most sensitive at the top, least sensitive at the bottom
	1. The British have broken the German Enigma Codes
	2. The Normandy Invasion is scheduled for June 6
	3. Col. Jones just got a raise
	4. Col. Smith didn't get a raise
	5. The base softball team has a game tomorrow at 3pm
	6. The cafeteria is serving chopped beef on toast today
	7. and so on

7. Invent labels for documents containing each of those facts.
	
	1. Security Information
	2. War Plans
	3. Personnel Information
	4. Personnel Information
	5. Base Activities
	6. Base Food
	7. etc.

8. Justify the rules for mixed documents.

	If a document has two different labels, the most important should definitely be
	indicated and the document should be labeled as such.

LECTURE 7

1. Document labels are stamped on the outside. How are labels affixed to humans?

	They get authorization/clearance levels assigned to them. These levels indicate
	the classes of information that person is authorized to access.

2. Explain the difference in semantics of labels for documents and labels for
humans.

	Levels are physically attached to the documents whereas the labels on humans
	are an indication of the clearance level  they have access to.

3. In the context of computers what do you think are the analogues of documents? Of humans?

	Files/Folders

4. Explain why the Principle of Least Privilege makes sense.

	To ensure that information is on a need-to-know basis and no possible information
	leaks are prevented.

5. For each of the pairs of labels on slide 6, explain why the answers in the
third column do or do not make sense.

	1. Yes they gain access because their clearance level is higher and have access
		to the right document label
	2. No because the clearance level is not higher than the document sensitivity level
	3. Yes because the clerance level is higher and the document label does not have a label

LECTURE 8

1. Why do you think we introduced the vocabulary terms: objects, subjects,
actions?

	To prevent ambiguity when explaining concepts

2. Prove that dominates is a partial order (reflexive, transitive, antisymmetric).
	
	Reflexive: A == B
	Transitive: If A > B and B > C then A > C
	Antisymmetric: If A is in B AND B is in A then A = B

3. Show that dominates is not a total order.

	A and B can be labels with the same sensitivity, one not dominating the other.

4. What would have to be true for two labels to dominate each other?

	The level of clearance has to be higher than the other and the access to certain labels
	has to be a superset of the other.

5. State informally what the the Simple Security property says.

	If a Subject has a higher clearance level and access than an object's clearance level 
	and access then the subject can read the object.

6. Explain why its only if and not if and only if.

	It's only if because there can be more than the clearance level requirement to be 
	able to read the object not just a matter of clearance level.

LECTURE 9

1. Why isnt Simple Security enough to ensure confidentiality?

	Simple Security only deals with read access to documents not write acces.

2. Why do we need constraints on write access?

	A person of higher clearance level must not be able to write downwards to
	documents that can be seen by lower clearance levels.

3. What is it about computers, as opposed to human beings, that makes that
particularly important?

	A program might release information about my computer without my knowledge.

4. State informally what the *-Property says.

	A subject with a clearance level lower than the clearance level of the object
	can write to the object.

5. What must be true for a subject to have both read and write access to an
object?

	A Subject and object have to have the exact same clearance levels and classification
	levels.

6. How could we deal with the problem that the General (top secret) cant send
orders to the private (Unclassified)?

	Allow documents to change levels. Make a general write a document in his clearance level
	demote the level down to be able to be viewed by the private.

7. Isnt it a problem that a corporal can overwrite the war plan? Suggest how
we might deal with that.

	Yes it is, but it can be dealt with security policies that focus on integrity.

LECTURE 10

1. Evaluate changing a subjects level (up or down) in light of weak tranquility.

	It should not be allowed because it would violate confidentiality.

2. Why not just use strong tranquility all the time?
	
	A document could lose its sensitivity over time and could be lowered.

3. Explain why lowering the level of an object may be dangerous.

	Sensitive information might become known to the wrong personnel.

4. Explain what conditions must hold for a downgrade (lowering object level)
to be secure.

	Make sure no sensitive information that should stay at a high level is not released.

LECTURE 11

1. Suppose you wanted to build a (library) system in which all subjects had
read access to all files, but write access to none of them. What levels could
you give to subjects and objects?

	Subjects(readers) have a higher level than the objects(books).

2. Why wouldnt you usually build an access control matrix for a BLP system?

	The access control matrix would be huge for a BLP system.

LECTURE 12

1. Suppose you had hierarchical levels L, H with L < H, but only had one
category A. Draw the lattice. (Use your keyboard and editor to draw it; it
doesnt have to be fancy.)

	(H, {A})
	 ^ ^
	 |  \
	 |   \
	 |    \
	 |     (H, {})
	 |	 ^
	(L, {A}) |
	  ^	 |
	   \	 |
	    \    |	
	     \   |
	      \  |
	       \ |
	        (L, {})
	

2. Given any two labels in a BLP system, what is the algorithm for finding
their LUB and GLB?

	LUB is the least upper bound
	GLB is the greatest lower bound

3. Explain why upward flow in the lattice really is the metapolicy for BLP.

	We only want information to flow upward, referring to writing upwards never downwards.

LECTURE 13

1. Explain how the BLP rules are supposed to enforce the metapolicy in the
example on slide 1.

	In BLP, there is no writing upwards which enforces this metapolicy that information flow
	is only permitted from L(the lower level) to H(the upper level) but not from H to L.

2. Argue that the READ and WRITE operations given satisfy BLP.

	READ only executes when the subject has a higher level than the lower level, satisfying
		BLP where a subject can't write any sensitive information downards.
	WRITE only executes when the subject has a lower level than the object.

3. Argue that the CREATE and DESTROY operations given satisfy BLP.

	CREATE is supposed to create the object and always act the same way whether it created
		a new object or not. This satisfies BLP by not indicating if it actually created
		a new object.
	DESTROY is supposed to destroy the object and not act differently if the object existed
		or not. This satisfies BLP because it would not indicate whether it actually
		deleted an item or not.

4. What has to be true for the covert channel on slide 5 to work?

	SH has to transmit 1 to SL some way, for example by changing a signal bit somewhere.

5. Why is the DESTROY statement there?

	To delete F0 at the end of the transaction.

6. Are the contents of any files different in the two paths?

	No.

7. Why does SL do the same thing in both cases? Must it?

	Yes because it is supposed to not have any information about SH. Yes.

8. Why does SH do different things? Must it?

	I don't know?

9. Justify the statement on slide 7 that begins: If SL ever sees...

	The metapolicy indicates that there is to be no information flow from SH to SL, in this
	case, one bit of information is sent from SH to SL so it violates the metapolicy.

LECTURE 14

1. Explain why two human users talking over coffee is not a covert channel.

	A covert channel is a point of communication that was not meant to be used for
	communication. Two humans talking is meant for communication.

2. Is the following a covert channel? Why or why not?

		Send 0 		| 	Send 1
	------------------------------------------
	Write (SH, F0, 0) 	| Write (SH, F0, 1)
	Read (SL, F0) 		| Read (SL, F0)

	No, it seems like SH is writing to F0 and SL is reading it directly. Not
	a covert channel but definitely a violation of the metapolicy.

3. Where does the bit of information transmitted reside in Covert Channel #1?

	In software

4. In Covert Channel #2?

	In hardware

5. In Covert Channel #3?

	Both hardware and software

6. In Covert Channel #4?

	In software

7. Why might a termination channel have low bandwidth?

	Very little information needed to indicate a termination

8. What would have to be true to implement a power channel?

	A way to view power consumption

9. For what sort of devices might power channels arise?

	Devices with low power output so fluctuations are detected easier

LECTURE 15

1. Explain why covert channels, while appearing to have such a low bandwidth, can potentially be very serious threats.
	
	Although relatively low bandwidth compared to other data transfers, processors operate
	at such a high speed that even an extremely low bandwidth can lead to a potentially
	large information leak.

2. Why would it be infeasible to eliminate every potential covert channel?

	To eliminate every covert channel would require complete isolation which is not
	practical because there would be no data flow.

3. If detected, how could one respond appropriately to a covert channel?

	Modifying the system implementation to get rid of a specific covert channel.
	Reducing the bandwidth of the covert channel, make it noisy.
	Or monitor the covert channel for any intruders.

4. Describe a scenario in which a covert storage channel exists.

	For example, an important document is modified and the fact that it was modified
	is stored in a bit. Another user that doesn't have the permissions to read
	the document is able to still look at the document's attributes and realize
	it was recently modified by accessing the bit.

5. Describe how this covert storage channel can be utilized by the sender and
receiver.

	The receiver could then record the time that it discovered that the sender changed
	the document.

LECTURE 16

1. Why wouldnt the create operation have an R in the SRMM for the file
existence attribute?

	Although we can infer that a file was created by the operation, the operation itself
	yields no information to indicate whether it created a new object or not.

2. Why does an R and M in the same row of an SRMM table indicate a potential channel?

	An R and M on the same row indicates that a subject can READ and WRITE to an object
	then it is a channel where information can flow between 2 subjects.

3. If an R and M are in the same column of an SRMM table, does this also
indicate a potential covert channel? Why or why not?

	Yes because if a subject of lower clearance level is able to infer any information
	that it's not supposed to from an object modified  by a subject of higher clearance
	level it is a covert channel.

4. Why would anyone want to go through the trouble to create an SRMM
table?
	
	To potentially identify any covert channels or at least channels of communication.





