Nathan Park
ncp299
ncpark92
nathan.c.park@gmail.com

CS361 Questions: Week 3

Lecture 34

1. The channel is only capable of sending at C bits per second so just doing simple math it is obvious that C/h symbols per second is the maximum amount of information that can be sent over that channel.

2. Making the code redundant allows the message to be sent multiple times so that even if the full message does not make it the first time, eventually the entire message will have made it through to the receiver.


Lecture 35

1. h = - (log1/10)

2. Calculating the entropy of natural language is difficult because there are more factors at hand than just the number of possibilities. There are redundancies and patterns that make the real entropy different from the simple zero model.

3. The 0 order model assumes that all possibilies have the exact same chance of occurring. Using the enlgish alphabet as an example, there would be 26 letters so 1/26 possbility which we would use to compute entropy. The 1st order model takes into account that some letters are used more frequently than others. The 2nd order model takes into account that some letters appear together more frequently in pairs and the 3rd order model takes into account the same fact but in triads.


Lecture 36

1. It is hard to account for all details that someone may know which makes it hard to account for and calculate prior probabilities.

2. The observer may need only one detail or he may need many details which changes how much information that needs to be sent.

3. Entropy can be used to measure the amount of redundancy in the encoding. 


Lecture 37

1. There are redundancies in the message that can be used to decipher the true meaning. It would be difficult without a cipher to find out what the message is saying because for now only assumptions can be made.

2. Using a key would be optimal because it would set a standard to be used when encrpyting or decrpyting the message.

3. There should be no effect on the information itself but the way the information is presented would be changed inorder to hide the meaning from unwanted eyes.

4. Redundancy in the source would allow you to see patterns of how symbols are used in relation to others.


Lecture 38

1. P

2. E(P,Ke)

3. The patterns may give you clues about the relationshipt he symbols have with each other.

4. For example, if using the english language than you would know that there are some letters that appear more frequently than others.


Lecture 39

1. The example would be an encrpytion that would require brute force to break while having an incredibly high number of possibilities. 

2. Because the ciphers use n-bit strings which means that through brute force the key could eventually be found using 2^n-1 operations.

3. These are the basics of encryption that when used together can become strong encrpytion techniques. 

4. Confusion is similar to subsitution where the information is changed into another form so that it is hard to read while diffusion is like transposition where the informaton is arranged so that it is not readily available.

5. Neither is necessarily better than the other.


Lecture 40

1. In monoalphabetic substitution, each symbol gets replaced by another symbol while in polyalphabetic substitution each symbol gets replaced depending on wher ein the plaintext it is. 

2. The key is mapping of symbols that replace the symbols in the plaintext. This may  be just the distance if the alphabet is used on itself or may be an actual mapping if another alphabet is used.

3. As the symbols get assigned, there are one less symbol to assign which is k!.

4. The key is the distance to the letter that is mapped to the plaintext letter.

5. 26

6. The Caesar Cipher is not a strong algorithm.

7. The decrpytion algorithm is doing the process backwards with the ciphertext and the key in order to find the plaintext.


Lecture 41

1. There is no way to tell what each letter is being encrypted from without knowing further information so its 26^3.

2. Once we know more information we can reduce the search space to 650 which is 27 times less than the original search space of 17576.

3. A perfect cipher is probably possibly through an algorithm with multiple keys which changes the key based on context.


Lecture 42

1. Because the plaintext, key and ciphertext are all of the same length, it is impossible to tell whether or mot you found the message unless you have all 3 pieces of information.

2. The key must be random because if the key stays the same than using redundancy we can figure out eventually what message is being sent because the algorithm itself is not complicated.

3. If you have a secure channel that you can send the key through, then you can just send your message instead because it is secure. If there is no secure channel, then there is no way to ensure that someone doesn't intercept the key.


Lecture 43

1. The original characters are used in the result which means that redundancies are easier to spot and used to decipher the message.


Lecture 44

1. A one-time pad is an asymmetric algorithm.

2. Key distribution is knowing how to send out keys to those who need them securely while key management is taking all of your keys and preserving them so that they are ready when needed.

3. No, Ks only allows confidentiality when sending a message to S and without Ks-1 you cannot decode the message.

4. A public key system is better in regards to security but is much more expensive to generate.


Lecture 45

1. It is much harder to tamper with the message and at the same time easier to decode because the information from one plaintext symbol is diffused into several ciphertext symbols.

2. Malleability is a quality you do not want in your encryption algorithm because that means your message can be changed in meaningful ways.

3. Homomorphic encryption would allow different services to work together witshout the data being exposed to any of them.


Lecture 46

1. subBytes replaces each value in the array with the value that is stored at the location in a loopup table.

2. shiftRows uses diffusion when it shifts the ith row a set distance that increases as you go down the rows.

3. The decryption takes longer because of having to invert the array.

4. The block contains all of the information that you want to send to the receiver and the rounds use the four steps listed in order to encrypt your message.

5. Increasing the number of rounds increases the level of encryption that is applied to the original state.


Lecture 47

1. Identical blocks int he plaintext yield identical blocks in the ciphertext which means that it can be sovled easily.

2. This flaw can be fixed by using Cipher Block Chaining in order to randomize the blocks.

3. An attacker who observes long enough can spot the first block that is changed and if the attacker can find identical blocks then he can derive information about the two plaintext blocks.

4. Key stream generation allows a key stream that can be used as in one-time pad.


Lecture 48

1. There must also be a secret key that is used to decrypt the message.

2. One way functions allow you to easily create keys that cannot be deciphered without holding previous information.

3. You can have agreed upon information for example, two prime numbers, and distribute the product as a public key so that you can decode the third number between only those who have the previous information. This is a secure way to distribute keys.

4. {P}K-1

5. Symmetric algorithms are generally much less efficient than symmetric algorithms.


Lecture 49

1. The algorithm would still work because {{P}d}e = {{P}e}d

2. Prime numbers do not have factors outside of 1 and itself and are rare numbers which make it difficult to decipher.

3. RSA is one of those where it is breakable but not feasible to attempt.

4. No one can read it because encryption with a public key is a privacy transformation.

5. It is encrypted with a public key which is available to all.

6. B used his private key which is known only to B.

7. They can use the public key of B.

8. There needs to be two pairs of keys for privacy and authenticity.


Lecture 50

1. The hash function must be able to convert a variable-sized text into a fixed size integer.

2. In weak collision resistance, there are stipulations for what the input can be while in strong collision resistance the input can be anything.

3. In preimage resistance, h is compared to the function while in second preimage resistance the function is compared to itself and another input.

4. There are about 1.25sqrt(128) arguments to search through.

5. There are 1.25sqrt(160) atguments to search through.

6. Cyptographic hash functions make any alterations to the file apparent which is an integrity issue.

7. It has the attribute of being like an audit. The function "binds" the bytes of a file together.

8. B can use RSA to agree upon a system of keys to send the message securely and then store the results of the cryptographic hash function so that A can compare and make sure the correct message was sent.


Lecture 51

1. No, public keys can be used to crack both encryptions which means everyone can see the key.

2. The encryptions can be done in the reverse order.

3. No, S's private key must be used to break the outer encryption.

4. Confidentiality and authentication must both be present in order to send a key.


Lecture 52

1. Nothing would happen because the values a, b, and p are needed to decrypt the keys.

2. If you had a then you would still not be able to decode the key because with the information you have you need to know b.

3. You would be able to decode b because you have all the necessary information.