Name: Caitlin Billings
EID: cb27349
CS Login: caitlin
Email: cxbillings@gmail.com

Lecture 66
1. What is PGP?
an email encryption system that provides strong encryption

2. What motivated Phil Zimmerman to develop it?
He strongly distrusted the government.

3. Does PGP provide effective security?
Yes, it's very secure.

4. If PGP is freeware, why would anyone bother to purchase support?
Probably because the company selling it provides some sort of guarantee about 

its secureness that wouldn't be provided by a freeware version.

Lecture 67
1. Explain the PGP authentication protocol.
S sends R the message M and a hashed version of M encrypted with S's private 

key, so R knows the message is from S and can rehash the message to make sure 
it 

hasn't been tampered with.

2. Explain the PGP confidentiality protocol.
S sends R a message M encrypted with session key K and also sends R the 
session 

key K encrypted with R's public key. S knows that only R can decrypt the 
session 

key and therefore is the only one who can read the message.

3. How do you get both authentication and confidentiality?
Apply the authentication steps, then the confidentiality steps.

Lecture 68
1. Besides authentication and confidentiality, what other .services. does PGP
provide?
compression, email compatibility, and segmentation

2. Why is compression needed?
It increases the efficiency of PGP by reducing space and encryption time.

3. Why sign a message and then compress, rather than the other way around?
So that the signature doesn't depend on the compression algorithm.

4. Explain radix-64 conversion and why it.s needed?
It's used to convert groups of three 8-bit octets into four ASCII characters, 
so 

that email systems don't have trouble with bitstrings they interpret as 
control 

commands.

5. Why is PGP segmentation needed?
Because many email systems restrict the length of email messages, so they have 

to be broken up.

Lecture 69
1. What are the four kinds of keys used by PGP?
session keys, public keys, private keys, and passphrase-based keys

2. What special properties are needed of session keys?
they must be randomly generated and only used once

3. How are session keys generated?
They are formed from previous sessions keys and two n/2-bit blocks that are 

based on user keystrokes.

4. Assuming RSA is used for PGP asymmetric encryption, how are the keys
generated?
Large odd numbers are generated randomly until one of them is prime.

5. How are the private keys protected? Why is this necessary?
They're encrypted with a user-supplied passphrase, to protect the private key 

from other users without having to just memorize it.

Lecture 70
1. If a user has multiple private/public key pairs, how does he know which was
used when he receives an encrypted message?
The user receives the least significant 64 bits of the key and checks to see 
if 

it's on his keyring.

2. What.s on a user.s private key ring?
a list of entries for each private key that stores a timestamp, the key ID, 
the 

public key, the private key, and the user's ID

3. What.s on a user.s public key ring?
a list of entries for each public key that stores a timestamp, the key ID, the 

public key, and the user's ID

4. What are the steps in retrieving a private key from the key ring?
- PGP uses the key ID to get the encrypted private key from the key ring
- it asks the user for the passphrase to decrypt the key
- it decrypts the session key, then the message

5. What is the key legitimacy field for?
It tells you how trustworthy the binding between a key and its user is.

6. How is a key revoked?
The owner of a public key issues a signed key revocation certificate to the 

person she wants to revoke the key from, then the recipient has to comply by 

updating her public key ring.

Lecture 71
1. Explain the difference between the consumer and producer problems. Which
is more prevalent?
The consumer problem is when the attacker disrupts the service somehow, the 

producer problem is when the attacker floods the system with requests and 

overwhelms it so that real clients can't get through, and is the more common 

type.

2. Explain syn flooding.
The attacker floods the server with requests to establish a connection, but 

provides forged return addresses that go nowhere, so the server is forced to 

wait until the connections time-out, tying up all the resources.

3. Why are the first three solutions to syn flooding not ideal?
They either consume to many resources, could filter out legitimate clients, or 

are hard to reliably implement.

Lecture 72
1. Why doesn't packet filtering work very well to prevent attacks?
Because it's hard to tell the difference between attack patterns and regular 
use patterns.

2. What are the differences between intrusion detection and intrusion 
prevention
systems?
An IDS is reactive and analyzes patterns, while and IPS is proactive and more 
aggressive.

3. Explain the four different solutions mentioned to DDoS attacks.
- over-provisioning the network - making sure the servers can't be overwhelmed 
by just having a whole lot of them
- filtering attack packets - trying to tell the difference between attack 
patterns and regular patterns and only block the bad ones
- slow down processing - makes flooding the system harder by slowing down the 
servers
- "Speak-up" solution - request additional traffic from everybody requestion, 
based on the assumption that attackers are already maxed out

Lecture 73
1. Explain false positive and false negatives. Which is worse?
A false positive means that an attack was reported but was actually just 
harmless behavior. A false negative means that an attack was happening but 
wasn't detected, which is much worse.

2. Explain what .accurate. and .precise. mean in the IDS context.
Accurate means that the IDS detects all genuine attacks, while precise means 
it doesn't mis-identify harmless behavior as an attack.

3. Explain the statement: .It.s easy to build an IDS that is either accurate 
or
precise?
You could easily build a perfectly accurate system that just reports that 
everything is an attack, or a perfectly precise system that reports nothing.

4. What is the base rate fallacy? Why is it relevant to an IDS?
The base rate fallacy is an error in thinking that says when presented with 
base rate information and specific case information, you usually (incorrectly) 
tend to ignore the former. In the case of an IDS, it means that people are 
likely to falsely think that an attack report most likely means there's an 
actual attack, ignoring the base rate information that says attacks are 
statistically rare.

Lecture 74
1. What did Code Red version 1 attempt to do?
Tried to infect random IP address during the first 2/3 of the month, launch a 
denial of service attack on whitehouse.gov during the last third of the month, 
and deface some webpages.

2. Why was Code Red version 1 ineffective?
The IP addresses generated were not randomized properly, so it spread slowly, 
and the whitehouse.gov address was changed.

3. What does it mean to say that a worm is .memory resident.? What are the
implications.
A machine with the worm can be disinfected by rebooting, so it's easy to rid 
yourself of the worm.

4. Why was Code Red version 2 much more effective than version 1?
It properly randomized the IP addresses it generated, so it spread very fast.

Lecture 75
1. How was Code Red II related to Code Red (versions 1 and 2)?
It exploited the same buffer-overflow vulnerability.

2. Why do you suppose Code Red II incorporated its elaborate propogation
scheme?
To infect entire geographically close populations of machines.

3. What did Code Red II attempt to do?
Install a backdoor in the infected machines that would allow any code to be 
executed on that machine.

4. Comment on the implications of a large population of unpatched machines.
Leaves large portions of the population vulnerable to attacks.

5. Comment on the report from Verizon cited on slide 6. What are the lessons
of their study?
It is important to be vigilant about patching machines.

Lecture 76
1. Why is a certification regime for secure products necessary and useful?
Because they're likely to be used by users who don't have the expertise to 
certify stuff for themselves.

2. Explain the components of an evaluation standard.
the requirements of what functionality the security system has, a set of 
assurance requirements needed to make that functionality happen, a way of 
determining that the functionality is correct, and a measure of the 
trustworthiness of the system

3. Why would crypto devices have a separate evaluation mechanism?
Because they're being used for more crucial purposes, like protection of top 
secret data.

4. Explain the four levels of certification for crypto devices.
level 1 - 1+ cryptographic algorithm applied
level 2 - packaging that shows when it's been tampered with
level 3 - increased level of tamper-resistance
level 4 - total physical security, keys zero out when tampered with

Lecture 77
1. What is the Common Criteria?
a list of secure systems evaluation criteria

2. What.s .common. about it?
It's been adopted by 26 different countries.

3. Why would there be any need for .National Schemes.?
So that other countries wouldn't know your exact method for keeping 
information secure.

4. Explain the difference between a protection profile and a security target.
A protection profile is a list of potential threats against a family of 
products, while a security target is a list of requirements for a specific 
product.

Lecture 78
1. Explain the overall goal of the protection profile as exemplified by the 
WBIS
example.
Describes the possible threats against a system and the objectives needed to 
protect against them.

2. What is the purpose of the various parts of the protection profile (as 

exemplified in the WBIS example)?
assets - the data that needs to be protected
environmental assumptions - characteristics of the system that must exist for 
the system to work
threats - potential types of attacks against the system
organization security policies - physical needs to prevent attacks
security objectives - goals for prevention/detection of attacks
security requirements - needs to implement the security objectives

3. What is the purpose of the matrix on slide 7?
It shows which security objectives/requirements handle which 
threats/assumptions, so you can tell that everything is covered.

Lecture 79
1. Explain the overall goal of the security target evaluation as exemplified 
by
the Sun Identity Manager example.
To prevent unauthorized users from accessing data while ensuring that 
authorized users can access it.

2. How do you think that a security target evaluation differs from a 
protection
profile evaluation?
The security target is much more focused on a specific implementation of a 
product.

Lecture 80
1. What are the EALs and what are they used for?
They are a series of evaluation levels used to fully evaluate a system.

2. Who performs the Common Criteria evaluations?
an independent organization accredited to perform CC testing

3. Speculate why the higher EALs are not necessarily mutually recognized by
various countries.
Some countries may feel that the first four levels are sufficient for their 
purposes.

4. Can vendors certify their own products? Why or why not?
No, they can't be trusted to judge themselves fairly.

5. If you.re performing a formal evaluation, why is it probably bad to reverse
engineer the model from the code?
Because it's not very secure.
