Name: Ruben Baeza
UTEID: rb27735
CS login: rb27735
email: ruben.baeza@utexas.edu


CS361 Questions: Week 5
Lecture 66
1. What is PGP?
	"PGP is a 'end-run' around government restrictions" - Lecture 66, slide 3

2. What motivated Phil Zimmerman to develop it?
	Distrust for the government and belief that everybody should have access to privacy.

3. Does PGP provide effective security?
	Yes

4. If PGP is freeware, why would anyone bother to purchase sup
port?
	No longer freeware, but this is tailored more specifically towards businesses.

Lecture 67
1. Explain the PGP authentication protocol.
	The sender creates a message and generates its hash. Then sender signes the hash 
	with private key and adds it to the message. The receiver uses the public key of the
	sender to make sure that it was sent by him/her and recover the hash code. The receiver
	then generates a new hash for the message and sees that it matches the decrypted hash.

2. Explain the PGP confidentiality protocol.
	Sender generates a message M and random session key K.
	M is encrypted using key K.
	K is encrypted using the recipient's public key and added to message.
	Receiver uses private key to recover session key.
	the session key is used to decrypt the message.

	This is like authentication, however a new key is used for each communication 
	instance.


3. How do you get both authentication and confidentiality?
	Use authentication on original message then confidentiality on resulting message.


Lecture 68


1. Besides authentication and confidentiality, what other “
services” does PGP provide?
	compression, email compatibility and segmentation.

2. Why is compression needed?
	In order to make transferring large messages easy.

3. Why sign a message and then compress, rather than the other
way around?
	So the hash doesn't depend on the compression algorithm.

4. Explain radix-64 conversion and why it’s needed?
	Needed in order to add more confusion and for error checking. It consists of
	taking the 8-bit octets and separating into groups of three to generate four
	ASCII characters.

5. Why is PGP segmentation needed?
	So that large messages can be split into smaller ones for ease of transfer.

Lecture 69

1. What are the four kinds of keys used by PGP?
	Session, public, private and passphrase-based keys.

2. What special properties are needed of session keys?
	It is only used once and the size of the key is dependent on the ecryption algorithm
	used. Previous session keys are used to generate new session key.
	
3. How are session keys generated?
	n-bits from a previous key, and n/2-bit blocks (2) from user keystrokes. These are
	encrypted and combined to give the new key.


4. Assuming RSA is used for PGP asymmetric encryption, how ar
e the keys generated?
	find a large (>200 bits) prime number to use instead of previous session key.


5. How are the private keys protected? Why is this necessary?
	Private keys are stored encrypted with a user-supplied passphrase.
	The keys are encrypted using CAST-128 with 128 bits of hash code as key.
	the hash code is generated from the passphrase using SHA-1.

CS361 Questions: Week 5
2
Lecture 70
1. If a user has multiple private/public key pairs, how does h
e know which was used when he receives an encrypted message?
	generates an id likely to be unique for a given user (least significant 64 bits
	of the key).

2. What’s on a user’s private key ring?
	their own public/private key pairs
	timestamep when the key pairs were generated,
	key ID, 64 least significant bits of public key
	public key: the public protion of the key
	private: the private protion, encrypted using a passphrase
	user id, usually the user's email address may be different for different key pairs.

3. What’s on a user’s public key ring?
	public keys of others
	timestamp: when the entry was generated
	key id
	public key
	user id, identifier for the owner of this key, multiple ids may be associated with a single public key

4. What are the steps in retrieving a private key from the key ring?
	PGP retrieves receiver's encrypted private key from priate-key ring, using the key ID field in the session key component of the message as an index.
	PBP prompts the user for the passphrase to recover the unencrpyted private key
	PGP recovers the session key and decrypts the message

5. What is the key legitimacy field for?
	indicate how much PGP trusts that this is a valid public key for that user

6. How is a key revoked?
	owners issue a signed key revocation certificate

Lecture 71
1. Explain the difference between the consumer and producer
problems. Which is more prevalent?
	Consumer problem - attacker is in the middle of the client and service disrupting communication
	Producer problem - attacker produces so many requests of the server that it is overwhelmed.

2. Explain syn flooding.
	an attacker changes the SYN packets' return addresses, thus the sever is trying to maintain the connections with a ghost client. Eventually all the servers connections are with this ghost client and no other requests get through.

3. Why are the first three solutions to syn flooding not ideal?
	1- can take up too many resources
	2- might mess with legitimate connections that are slow
	3- hard to determine

Lecture 72
1. Why does packet filtering work very well to prevent attacks?
	because they prevent any connections that might resemble an attack

2. What are the differences between intrusion detection and
intrusion preven-
tion systems?
	intrusion detection works to detect intrusions as soon as they happen
	while intrusion prevention works to prevent intrusions before they happen

3. Explain the four different solutions mentioned to DDoS at
tacks.
	1 - if you have more servers than attackers can ever attack it would be impossible for DDoS attacks
	2 - filter packets usingpattern recognition
	3 - slows down everybodies connections that way too many resources arent all used on one client
	4 - ask all clients to send in more information, that way legitimate connections have a higher chance of getting their data through.

Lecture 73
1. Explain false positive and false negatives. Which is wors
e?
	false positive - classify legitimate connection as an attack
	false negeative - classify attack as legitimate connection

	Depends on what the system is trying to accomplish, but generally a false negative is worse
	since it is an attack that went undetected


2. Explain what “accurate” and “precise” mean in the IDS cont
ext.
	accuracy is when a system can detect all attacks
	precision is when a system never reports a legitimate connection as an attack


3. Explain the statement: “It’s easy to build an IDS that is ei
ther accurate or precise?
	Because of the existence of false positives and negatives you can never get rid of both. A system that seeks out attackers will eventually mistake a legitimate connection as an attack.

4. What is the base rate fallacy? Why is it relevant to an IDS?
	Base rate fallacy says that with rare events in a population, you will have false positives.
	Says that there will always be false positives, especially when attacks are less abundant than
	legitimate connections.

Lecture 74

1. What did Code Red version 1 attempt to do?
	launch a DoS attack on whitehouse.gov

2. Why was Code Red version 1 ineffective?
	it hadflaws in its design, specifically the static seed
	it could be removed with a reboot

3. What does it mean to say that a worm is “memory resident”? What are the
implications.
	it means that it is not saved on disk and remains only while the system is on.
	It is removed during reboot. One can easily disinfect their system. Also, it is harder
	to get a hold of virus.

4. Why was Code Red version 2 much more effective than version 1?
	used a random seed generator

Lecture 75
1. How was Code Red II related to Code Red (versions 1 and 2)?
	targeted the same vulnerability

2. Why do you suppose Code Red II incorporated its elaborate propogation
scheme?
	in order to makeit harder to remove and easier to infect new hosts

3. What did Code Red II attempt to do?
	create "zombies" for future attacks

4. Comment on the implications of a large population of unpatched machines.
	They could all be used as zombies and cause various DoS attacks everywhere.

5. Comment on the report from Verizon cited on slide 6. What are the lessons
of their study?
	That everybody should update and patch their systems as updates roll out.

Lecture 76

1. Why is a certiﬁcation regime for secure products necessary and useful?
	most people do not have the expertise required to accurately asses products

2. Explain the components of an evaluation standard.
	requirments that define security functionality - state what the security system should accomplish
	set  of assurance requirements - needed for establishing the functional requirements or what the 		product itself should accomplish
	methodology for determining that the functional requirements are met - how to test whether the  	product does what it says it does
	measure of evaluatio result indicating the trustworthiness of the evaluated system - a scale by 
		which people can compare trustworthiness ratings

3. Why would crypto devices have a separate evaluation mechanism?
	Because they require more extreme testing in order to try and make sure that no possible holes
	exist

4. Explain the four levels of certiﬁcation for crypto devices.
	basic security - the system employs at least one algorithm that has already been aproved
	improved physical security - the packaging makes it easy to determine whether the device may 
		have been compromised
	strong tamper-resistance - the device makes it difficult to tamper with
	complete envelope of protection including immediate zeroing of keys upon tampering - failsafe to 
		delete all information upon discovery of tampering

Lecture 77
1. What is the Common Criteria?
	Made up of Common Criteria documents, Common Criteria Methodology, country specific evaluation scheme. It is a common secure systems evaluation criteria adopted by ~26 countries

2. What’s “common” about it?
	It is used by many countries,


3. Why would there be any need for “National Schemes”?
	because there is always some suspicion when trusting foreign agencies


4. Explain the difference between a protection proﬁle and a security target.
	protection profiles are what the security target should be able to cover security-wise


Lecture 78
1. Explain the overall goal of the protection proﬁle as exempliﬁed by the WBIS
example.
	the detection of invalid ID tags, invalid bin messages and fault tolerance

2. What is the purpose of the various parts of the protection proﬁle (as exempliﬁed in the WBIS example)?
	they help provide a system in which decisions are made on whether threats and assumptions are being addressed by the correct mechanisms - Slides for Lecture 78

3. What is the purpose of the matrix on slide 7?
	illustrate the mapping of threats and security objects

Lecture 79


1. Explain the overall goal of the security target evaluation as exempliﬁed by
the Sun Identity Manager example.
	what security profile is defined for the target and see how that product delivers that security profile and the extent to which it carries it out effectively

2. How do you think that a security target evaluation differs from a protection
proﬁle evaluation?
	security target evaluation evaluates how the target concerns itself with security while protection profiles specify the security goals for the target.

Lecture 80
1. What are the EALs and what are they used for?
	EALs are the tests carried out to determine the rigor with which a product was tested.

2. Who performs the Common Criteria evaluations?
	independent 3rd party organizations

3. Speculate why the higher EALs are not necessarily mutually recognized by
various countries.
	there is always suspicion when dealing with other countries and trusting their evaluations

4. Can vendors certify their own products? Why or why not?
	No the tests are made by independent 3rd party organizations in order to keep integrity

5. If you’re performing a formal evaluation, why is it probably bad to reverse
engineer the model from the code?
	Because the product should be made to conform to the goals, not creating the product then making up the goals and claiming it meets them.