Name: Maximilian Brown
EID: brownmt6
CS Login: brownmt6	
Email:	maximilian.brown@gmail.com

Questions: Week 5
Lecture 66
1.	(Pretty Good Privacy) strong encryption for email developed by Zimmermann

2.	Zimmerman had a strong distrust of government

3.	Yes it is effective. It uses the strongest cryptographic algorithms as its building blocks

4.	Commercial entities sometimes do not like to use freeware and like to be able to have support

Lecture 67
1.	Sender creates a message M
	Sender generates a hash of M
	Sender signs the hash using his private key and prepends the result to the message
	Receiver uses the sender's public key to verify the signature and recover the hash code
	Receiver generates a new hash code for M and compares it with the decrypted hash code

2.	Sender generates a message M and a random session key K
	M is encrypted using key K
	K is encrypted using the recipient's public key and prepended to the message
	Receiver uses his private key to recover the session key.
	The session key is used to decrypt the message

3.	Apply the authentication step to the original message, then apply the confidentiality step to the resulting message.

Lecture 68
1.	Compression, email compatibility, segmentation

2.	To make PGP efficient and robust

3.	You sign an uncompressed message so that the signature doesn't depend on the compression algorithm

4.	Radix-64 conversion maps groups of three octets into four ASCII characters. This is necessary to ensure compatibility with email systems.

5.	Segmentation is required to break messages up into peices that all email systems can handle

Lecture 69
1.	Session keys, public keys, private keys, passphrase-based keys

2.	Session keys are associated with a single message and used only once

3.	Encryption algorithm E is used to generate a n-bit key from a previous session key and two n/2-bit blocks generated based on user keystrokes, including keystroke timing

4.	An odd number n of sufficient size is generated and tested for primality, if not prime generate another number till prime if found

5.	Private keys are protected with passphrase encyrption. This is necessary to ensure private keys can not be easily obtained from someones system

Lecture 70
1.	Generate a unique ID for a given user. Use least significant 64-bits of the key as the ID

2.	The user's own public/private key pairs

3.	The keys of people you want to communicate with

4.	PGP retrieves receiver's encrypted private key from the private-key ring using the Key ID field in the session key
	PGP prompts the user for the passphrase to recover the unencrypted private key
	PGP recovers the session key and decrypts the message

5.	The key legitimacy field indicate the extent to which PGP trusts that this is a valid public key for the user

6.	Keys are revoked by the owner issuing  signed key revocation certificate. Recipients are expected to update their key rings.

Lecture 71
1.	The consumer problem- the attacker gets logically between the client and the service and disrupts communication
	The producer problem- the attacker produces, offers, or requests so many services that the server is overwhelmed
	The producer problem is more prevalent

2.	In a producer attack the transaction requires a handshake, when the attacker doesn't respond, the server ties up the system waiting for the attackers response

3.	Increasing the server's queue size could tie up resources and shortening the time-out period might prevent connections by slower clients

Lecture 72
1.	Filters can detect patterns of idnetifiers in the request stream and block messages in that pattern

2.	An intrusion detection system can analyze traffic patterns and react to anomalous patterns
	An intrusion prevention system attmenpst to prevent intrusion by more aggressively blocking attempted attacks

3.	-Over-provisioning the network, have too many servers to be overwhelmed
	-Filtering attack packets, distinguish the attack packets from regular packets
	-Slow down processing, disadvantages all requestors, but more severly disadvantages attackers
	-Speak up solution, request addtional traffic from all requestors

Lecture 73
1.	False negatives- genuine attack is not detected
	False positive- harmless behavior mistaken for an attack
	False negatives are worse

2.	Accurate- detecting all genuine attacks
	Precise- never reporting legitimate behavior as an attack

3.	Ensuring both accuracy and precision simultaneously is difficult

4.	Since attacks are a rare occurance, even IDS accuracy ratings as high as 90%  can still result in a lot of false alarms

Lecture 74
1.	Code Red version 1 tried to analyze a worm that used a static seed in its random number generator and generated identical lists of IP addresses on each infected machine

2.	Each infected machine probed the same list of machines, so the worm spread slowly

3.	"memory resident" means that the machine can be disinfected by rebooting it

4. 	Code Red version 2 is much more effective because it used a random seed in the random number generator

Lecture 75
1.	Code Red II also generated random IP addresses. It used the same vulnerablity that Code Red did.

2.	Machines on the same network or subnet are likely to be running similar software

3.	It placed a backdoor that allowed any code to be executed allowing machines to be used for future attacks

4.	A large number of machines remained vulnerable to the same or similar attack

5.	It is a very big flaw that left a lot of customer's information to be hacked

Lecture 76
1.	It provides a standardized process of independent evaluation by expert teams to provide a ceritfied level of confidence for security products.

2.	A set of requirements defining security funcionality, a set of assurance requirements needed for establishing the functional requirements. 
	A methodology for determining that the functional requirements are met
	A measure of the ealuation result indicating the trustworthiness of the evaluated system.

3.	It is designed to protect sensitive but unclassified information

4.	Basic security- at least on approved algorithm or function
	Improved security- physical security, tamper-evident packaging
	Strong security- tamper-resistant and countermeasures
	Complet security- envelope of protection including immediate zeroing of keys upon tampering

Lecture 77
1.	Common Criteria is a secure system evaluation system adopted by 26 different countries

2.	It is common ammong the 26 countries that use it. 

3. 	The indepent countries adapted the criteria for their own needs. So only up to a certain level is trusted from other countries

4.	protection profile- security requirements for a category of products or systems
	security target- set of security requirements to be used as the basis of evaluation

Lecture 78
1.	Protect information that may not be confidential but are still unique such as records that a waste bin was cleared out 

2.	The purpose is to detect invalid ID tags, invalid bin-cleared messages, and fault tolerance

3.	The matrix illustrates the components of a protection profile

Lecture 79
1.	The goal is to store properties of users, support automatic generations of passwords, and specify password quality parameters

2.	Security target evaluation specifies what security means for a product and the protection profile evaluation specifies security requirements for a category of products

Lecture 80
1.	The EALs areor funtionally tested, structurally tested, methodologically tested and checked, mehodologically desinged, tested adn reviewed, semi formally verd desing and tested, and formally verified design and tested

2.	Common Criteria evaluations are done by the government of the country where the evaluation is performed

3.	In order to be tested at EAL5, 6, or 7 it would have to be designed using formal methods and only NSA performs testing for EAL5 and higher

4.	No, if they did it wouldn't be as reputable as the Common Criteria

5.	You have to use a formal(mathematical) method to perform the evaluation. It would undermine the process to reverse engineer the model from the code. 