Name: Jordan Graves
EID: jlg3585 
CS Login: jgraves
Email: j.l.graves03@gmail.com


Lecture 34


1. Why is it impossible to transmit a signal over a channel at an average rate
greater than C/h?

h represents the number of bits per symbols, therefore the entire message cannot be sent faster that C/h.

2. How can increasing the redundancy of the coding scheme increase the reliability of transmitting a message over a noisy channel?




Lecture 35
1. If we want to transmit a sequence of the digits 0-9. According to the zero order model, what is the entropy of the language?

h = −(log1/10)=3.3219.

2. What are reasons why computing the entropy of a natural language is difﬁcult?

It is impossible to know the true likelihood of any of the characters of the language.

3. Explain the difference between zero, ﬁrst, second and third-order models.

Zero order: all symbols are equally likely
Low order: symbols have different probabilities
High order: some symbols are more likely to occur after another

Lecture 36
1. Why are prior probabilities sometimes impossible to compute?



2. Why is the information content of a message relative to the state of knowledge of an observer?

The state of knowledge determines if the observer can even read the message (like having an encryption key). 

3. Explain the relationship between entropy and redundancy.

Entropy can be used to measure the amount of “redundancy” in the encoding. If the information content of a message is equal to the length of the encoded message, there is no redundancy.

Lecture 37
1. List your observations along with their relevance to cryptography about
Captain Kidd’s encrypted message.

Each individual symbol represents a symbol in a certain language. The frequency of each symbol may help determine what that symbol translates to if one knows the language of the decrypted message. The goat’s head possibly serves as some sort of clue to help decode the message. Understanding the nature of the message could help significantly in decoding the message.

2. Explain why a key may be optional for the processes of encryption or decryption.



3. What effect does encrypting a ﬁle have on its information content?

It hides the information content from anyone without the knowledge needed to decrypt it without destroying it.

4. How can redundancy in the source give clues to the decoding process?



Lecture 38
1. Rewrite the following in its simplest form: D(E(D(E(P)))).

D(E(P))

2. Rewrite the following in its simplest form: D( E( E(P, KE), KE) , KD).

D( E( E(P, KE), KE) , KD)

3. Why might a cryptanalyst want to recognize patterns in encrypted messages?

The patterns may give the cryptanalyst more information about the context of the message.

4. How might properties of language be of use to a cryptanalyst?

One could use the probabilities of symbols, or repeated symbol patterns, in languages to find clues about the encryption.

Lecture 39

1. Explain why an encryption algorithm, while breakable, may not be feasible
to break?

Although the algorithm could be breakable, breaking it could require a really long amount of time (thousands of years).


2. Why, given a small number of plaintext/ciphertext pairs encrypted under
key K, can K be recovered by exhaustive search in an expected time on the
order of 2^(n−1) operations?

Trying every possibility is 2^n operations. Since it is expected to find the key halfway down, the expected number of operations is 2^n / 2 = 2^(n-1)

3. Explain why substitution and transposition are both important in ciphers.

Almost all modern commercial symmetric ciphers use some combination of substitution and transposition for encryption.

4. Explain the difference between confusion and diffusion.

Confusion is obtained through substitution because it deals with symbol representations. Diffusion is obtained by transposition because it deals with the positions of the symbols with the message.

5. Is confusion or diffusion better for encryption?

Neither is better. Each can be used individually to encrypt a message and each have completely different side effects on the encryption which are somewhat incomparable.

Lecture 40
1. What is the difference between monoalphabetic and polyalphabetic substitution?

Monoalphabetic: Every symbol is exchanges by the same symbol throughout the message.

Polyalphabetic: Symbols are replaced with symbols depending on where they are in the message.

2. What is the key in a simple substitution cipher?

A finite sized table which tells you which symbols in the encrypted message map to which symbols in the plain text.

3. Why are there k! mappings from plaintext to ciphertext alphabets in simple substitution?



4. What is the key in the Caesar Cipher example?

The key depends on how many symbols left or right that you shift.

5. What is the size of the keyspace in the Caesar Cipher example?

The number of symbols in the language.

6. Is the Caesar Cipher algorithm strong?

Not at all.

7. What is the corresponding decryption algorithm to the Vigenere cipher text
example?



Lecture 41
1. Why are there 17576 possible decryptions for the “xyy” encoding on slide
3?
3 symbols, 26 possibilites for each symbol, 26^3=17576.
2. Why is the search space for question 2 on slide 3 reduced by a factor of 27?

It assumes a simple cipher was used. Since there are only 2 unique symbols, the number of possibilities becomes 25*26 = 650 which is somewhat close to 27^2

3. Do you think a perfect cipher is possible? Why or why not?

Yes. Anything is possible.

Lecture 42
1. Explain why the one-time pad offers perfect encryption.

The uncertainty (the likelihood of guessing the plaintext) of the message is exactly the same whether or not you know the ciphertext.

2. Why is it important that the key in a one-time pad be random?

Knowing a small amount of information about the key could allow the attacker the eliminate a large amount of the search space.

3. Explain the key distribution problem.

Given the need to communicate securely, how do the sender and receiver agree on a secret (key) that they can use. 

Lecture 43
1. What is a downside to using encryption by transposition?

Unlike simple substitution, it has greater space complexity since the message can’t be decrypted until it has been read in its entirety. This may be an issue for very long messages, and causes a delay in the decryption.

Lecture 44
1. Is a one-time pad a symmetric or asymmetric algorithm?

Symmetric.

2. Describe the difference between key distribution and key management.

Distribution is the concern with securely sharing a key by getting it to sender and receiver.

Management is the concern with having a bunch of keys and using the correct one for the correct message.

3. If someone gets a hold of Ks, can he or she decrypt S’s encrypted messages?
Why or why not?

No. They need S’s private key in order to decrypt any messages from S.

4. Are symmetric encryption systems or public key systems better?



Lecture 45
1. Why do you suppose most modern symmetric encryption algorithms are
block ciphers?

While slower, it is harder to decrypt.

2. What is the signiﬁcance of malleability?

Non malleability is strived for so one can not make changes in the ciphertext which are predictable in the plain text. (changing the meaning of a message by adding “not”)


