Name: Yun Jang
EID: ysj238
CS Login: yunjang
Email: yunsjang@gmail.com

CS 361 - Question Assignment #5

Lecture 66

1) PGP stands for Pretty Good Privacy and is a powerful encryption that is available to all for free and no interference from the pesky government.

2) Zimmermann had a strong distrust with the government and thought that everyone deserved right to privacy.

3) Yes, it does. It was effective in preventing the govenrment officials from decrypting it.

4) People purchase support for PGP as companies offer certain support and maintenance for their PGP encryption -- which you can't get through freeware.


Lecture 67

1) For authentication:
	- The sender creates message M and generates a hash of it.
	- The sender signs that hash using its private key and prepends the result to the message.
	- Receiver uses the sender's public key to verify signature and recover the hash code.
	- Receiver now generates a new hash code for M and compares it with the decrypted hash code.
	This ensures that the message arrives to the receiver without being modified because there would be no way to encrypt it again if it was modified without the private key.

2) For confidentiality:
	- Sender generates message M and random session key K.
	- M is encrypted using K (symmetric encryption).
	- M is encrypted using recipient's public key and prepends to message.
	- Receiver uses its private key to recover session key.
	- Session key is used to decrypt message.

3) You get both authentication and confidentiality by combining the two protocols together.


Lecture 68

1) Compression, Email Compatibility, Segmentation.

2) Compression is needed in order to save bandwidth and because the messages are arbitrarily long sometimes.

3) It is because if you compress and then sign a message, the signature becomes dependent on the compression algorithm used and there are different versions of compression algorithms.

4) Radix-64 conversion is used to prevent the encrypted text (which are 8-bit octets) from messing up email systems when they read certain bit strings. The conversion maps three octets into four ASCII characters so that the email system can comprehend it better.

5) Segmentation is required as email systems often restrict message length. Longer messages must be broken into segments and are mailed separatley. 


Lecture 69

1) Session, Public, Private, and Passphrase-generated Keys.

2) A special property needed of session keys is the encryption algorithm.

3) They are generated by using an encryption algorithm that uses a new n-bit key from a previous session key
		and two n/2-bit blocks generated based on user keystrokes (including key strokes).

4) For RSA, you generate the key by generating an odd number n of sufficient size and tested for primality.
		If not a prime, then it is re-generated. 

5) Private keys are protected via encryption using a user-supplied passphrase. This is necessary it prevents
		unsolicited use of the private key or generation of the keys.


Lecture 70 

1) They know by looking at the 64 least-significant bits of the key as the ID. This is what is used to decrypt 
		an encrypted message.

2) Time stamp; Key ID; Public Key; Private Key; User ID.

3) Time Stamp; Key ID; Public Key; User ID.

4) PGP gets receiver's encrypted private key from the private key-ring,  using the Key ID field in the session
		key. PGP prompts user for passphrase to recover the unencrypted private key. PGP recovers the session key
		and decrypts the message.

5) To see whether the user who sent the message is valid or not; basically to see if it is trustworthy.

6) Key is revoked if a owner issues a signed key revocation certificate.


Lecture 71

1) Consumer problem is involved when the attacker gets in between clients and the service to disrupt the communication.
		Producer problem is when the attacker overwhelms the service with too many requests that prevents actual consumers from being able to access it.
		The producer problem is more prevalent.

2) SYN-Flooding occurs when an attacker forges the return address on a number of SYN packets. The server takes
		these and fills its table with these half-open connections until it times-out. But the number of requests
		would overwhelm the table causing denial of services to actual consumers.

3) They aren't ideal as they end up causing detrimental effects to the overall service provided by the producer.
		Using too many resources causes problems to the producer; shortening time outs would cause denial of service
		to slower users; and filtering suspicious packets would just slow down the service being provided.


Lecture 72

1) It works well because it filters out all the packets that are seen as intrusive or malicious. 

2) Intrusion Detection System analyzes the traffic and then protects once the attack has already begun. Intrusion Prevention System has a more aggressive
	blocking method and prevents attacks before they occur (but that is assuming they are even found before the attack begins).

3) Over-provision the network so that there are too many servers to overwhelm. Filter the attack packets so that the illegitimate requests are thrown
	out. Slow down the processing so that the requests do not overwhelm the servers. And the "speak up" solution where you request more traffic from the consumers -- but the botnets can't respond to this since they are already over utilized. 


Lecture 73

1) False positives are mis-classified as an actual attack. False negatives are where genuine attacks are not detected. False positives are considered
	worse because false positives occur more frequently and they lead errors in the server more often.

2) Accurate means that if the IDS detects genuine attacks. Precise means if it doesn't report legitimate behavior as an attack. 

3) It basically means that a system can be easily built to be accurate or precise but it cannot be both. It would be difficult to be able to differentiate
	genuine attacks from legitimate behavior.

4) The base rate fallacy is where the actual number of attacks are very low but the IDS shows a high number of attacks being detected. 
	This is relevant to an IDS because it actually occurs in such a system and leads to many system failures where genuine attacks
	go through and the legitimate actions don't.


Lecture 74

1) Code Red (v1) attempted to just infect machines with a static random number generator on the first half of the month and then launch a DoS attack on 
	the White House during the other half of the month.

2) It was ineffective because it was slow to infect. The static random number generator kept generating IP addresses that were already infected. At the
	same time, the attack was aimed at a static IP address of the White House so the DoS attack was simply mitigated with the change of an IP address.

3) It means that the worm existed in the current memory addresses of the computer system. It basically means that once the computer restarts and the
	memory is refreshed, the worm is disinfected from the system.

4) Code Red (v2) was more effective because it actually utilized a random number generator that was random. So the rate at which it infected machines was
	significantly greater than before. This actually caused a massive DoS attack on the White House that became a problem. On top of that, it started to attack non-computer systems such as routers that caused them to crash and more. 


Lecture 75

1) It is related to the first and second version of CodeRed as it still exploited the same buffer-overflow vulnerability. Also, infected machines through IP address generation.

2) They probably did it in order to infect machines in a more controlled, yet faster fashion. 

3) CodeRedII attempted to infect the machine by installing a "backdoor" onto the infected machine so that the machine could be infected again later; additionally, its propagation system
		aimed to spread the infection further locally and across other networks.

4) Basically, the large population of unpatched machines are what allows and causes further breaches in security. These old machines that are not patched act as the source and root of
		further infection and attacks on vulnerabilities.

5) The lessons from their studies are that people are not keeping up or doing a good job updating their machines with the most recent patches in order to avoid vulnerabilities.


Lecture 76

1) It's necessary because consumers generally don't have the expertise to understand the concept of security that well. Additionally, it allows for standardization of security.

2) An evaluation standard contains a set of requirements that defined security functionality; a set of assurance requirements that establish the functional requirements; methodology for determining that the functional requirements are met; 
		and measure the evaluation result that indiciate the trustworthiness of the evaluated system.

3) Because not all security prodcuts are made the same. For example, your home wouldn't need a government-level of security protection. You would not only be paying too much for it but also it would be protecting you from threats you
		wouldn't ever come across.

4) The four levels of certification are: level 1 which is basic security; level 2 which is basic security with increased physical security; level 3 is strong tamper-resistance and countermeasures; level 4 is all of the above with complete
		envelope of protection.


Lecture 77

1) Common Criteria is a set of security standards that is recognized by 26 countries.

2) It's "common" because it basically provides a bunch of documents and evaluations that standardize
		the way security products should be made and evaluated.

3) There might be certain needs as the country may differ in terms of what software is being used widely.
		For example, if a country uses program A over program B, then there would be a National Scheme for how they
		should evaluate other programs against program A.

4) The difference is that protection profile is a description of a family of products in terms of threats,
		environmental issues, and assumptions, security objectives, and requirements of the Common Criteria.
		A security target is a document that contains the security requirements of a product to be evaluated and specifies the measures offered by the product to meet that requirement.


Lecture 78

1) The overall goal of the German WBIS is so that all threats and assumptions that are made about a system are correctly covered by the security objectives and system requirements.
		Using this matrix in the WBIS gives a good systematic way of figuring out what threats/assumptions are or aren't covered.

2) The purpose of the various parts of the protection profile is basically made so each threat/assumption is visibly listed or covered. It is basically labeling and doing sanity 
		checks on everything to ensure that all cases are checked for.

3) The purpose of the matrix is to provide a visual coverage of the threat/assumption with the system's requirement and security objecitves.
		If each row has an X in it, that means each threat/assumption that is made has some sort of underlying mechanism to guard against it.


Lecture 79

1) Basically, the overall goal for Security Target is to specify what security means for this product and how the product enforces the notion of security.

2) Security Target is where you submit a specific system or class of systems for evaluation. Protection Profile Evaluation involves a broader spectrum.


Lecture 80

1) EALs are called Evaluation Assurance Levels and they are used as a certification method for marketing in terms of how secure and trustworthy the software is.

2) The CC evaluations are done by the national testing authorities such as the NSA or the small laboratories that are certified by NIST (National Institute of Standards and Technology).

3) Higher EALs are not exactly recognized by various countries because the CC evaluations at those levels are taken into account by the higher authorities (in the USA's case, it must go through the NSA).

4) They cannot. This is because it would ruin the credibility of the certification as it could be falsely certified. The evaluations are carried out in terms of good faith and under a trustworthy name; it does not ensure safety or security.

5) It is because it would be impossible to reverse engineer a model from the code. Additionally, formal evaluation process is extremely expensive and time consuming so it would be unsuitable for a task to even be done.