Chris Hume
cmh3258
6/12/14
Homework 1
------------------------

Lecture 1

1. pretty much all of them. For my computer, my house, my computer and information on the internet. 
2. securities basic definition is that there are assets being protect from someone or something
3. not that I know of...
4. not likely. I decided from my virus/malware protection
5. I download virus protection and don't go to sketcy sites
6. I believe so
7. I think that it is possible to destroy the nation through infecting import computer systems, 
   yet I don't believe it would be possible to hack into all the systems at once
8. it is important so you know what kind of attacks are out there and know how to get secure

Lecture 2

1. We live in an imperfect world
2. You can try to cut out the bad things, but you will never catch all of them. There is no such thing as perfect security.
3. the defender tries to protect the styem/progam while the attacker does whatever hack to get whatever assets it is looking for. The attacker will use the weakest link that it can to get in.
4. Yeah of course I agree, they are very comical statements, but so true. Security can never be perfect. 
5. There is usually a tradeoff, which means that you either chose security or other goals such as funcitonality, usability, efficiency and so on.

Lecture 3

1. risk - possibility that something bad will happen eg. a particular threat will adversely impact an info system 
2. yes
3. accept -  cost of insuarance is greater than the potential loss 
   avoid - disallow remote login
   mitigate - reduce the loss due to a risk eg. take out the van instead of the ferrari
   transfer - taking risk and hand off to someone else eg. home security system
4. naive. If something that is highly unlikely to occur but will cost you your company, then you might want to take more time to secure this part
5. you manage the risk not just based on annualized loss expectancy but also taking care of situations that are unlikely but will cost you a lot

Lecture 4

1. on slide 2, there is a list of goals, it is what you want to accomplish and slide 3 is how you accomplish that goal on slide 2
2. confidentiality. I want to make sure my credit card info doesn't get stolen when I buy something from a website such as amazon
3. you group data according to how you want thtat part protected. Some groups you don't need as much security, others you need a lot
4. maybe you get a new user that needs to be authorized. or maybe you had to add extra security, so you need more authorizations to get through the system
5. say on amazon, two users want to buy the same book, if one buys it the other needs to know. so you need to make sure that the user can't buy the book. 
6. purchasing anything online would be very important for authen. and non-repud. Or signing something over the internet. 

Lecture 5

1. cell phone network - users will make phone calls and send messages that need to be protected from unwanted users stealing their data

military database - highly classified data is store on the database and we can't have anyone without authorization get into it and steal the data or change it

2. the policy is how you accomplish the meta policy, it is the steps you take
3. students may not change their records
    no one can remove records
    faculty may not change records without permission
4. ya sure. If a student want to view his records but doesn't want his parents to
5. Documents containing SSN need to be secure
6. If you don't know the larger goal, the metapolicy, then it is difficult to reach that goal. You won't know exactly what you are trying to protect and keep secure without the overview. 

Lecture 6

1. Because you don't want outsiders, or those who aren't allowed to view the data to see the data. We can't have people knowing where at attack is going to happen if they are on the opposing team.

yes there are

2. lower levels can write to upper levels, thus they can write anything they want and cause some chaos.
3. only worried about confidentiallity
4. it is a linearl ordered set of labels
5. worried about confidentiallity not integrity
6. least: baseball game, cafeteria, col smith, col jones, british broken codes, normandy invasion
8. use the highest appropriate level if there is both sens and non is present - this is reasonable because once again we don't want a lower level being a part of more sensitive information. For categories, we need to know what the document contains, so use both


Lecture 7

1. tells if the human is authorized to access it 
2. doc - labels tell sensitivity of info
    humans - indicate classes of info that person is authorized to access
3. doc - files, humans - users
4. a subject doesn't need to access more information than is needed. Like a janitor doesn't need to know top classified secrets, its just another vulnerability
5. 1. yes. Crypto has higher clearance than confidential, so can read
    2. no. Crypto has lower clearance than top secret, so that is invalid
    3. yes. nuclear has higher clearance than unclassified, so yes


Lecture 8

1. this is the basic setup/entities of security policy
2. partial because ie. neither a >= b nor b >= a
3. its not total becuase (ans 2) - there is not a set hierarchy eg. a > b > c > d
4. if l1 >= l2 and s2 subclasss s1 
5. read-down, write-up
6. becuase it has to be authorized and we aren't worried about integrity

Lecture 9

1. because it does nothing about writing
2. we don't want users to write where they are not supposed to
3. becuase when writing you can overwrite critical information
4. write-up
5. the subject has to have equal clearance to that object
6. give write access to the general. 
7. yes. restrict writing up


Lecture 10

1. you can not change it if it violates the "spirit" of the security policy
2. because sometime you need to change the authorization
3. if you lower an object, then others can now read it when they once could not
4. this seems similar to question 3. The conditions must hold so that you don't violate the goals of simple security or *-property

Lecture 11

1. all subjects would have a higher permission than the files
2. becuase it could be very very large. and most would probably be empty - you can just compute them instead

Lecture 12

1. 

(L, {}) --> (H, {}) --> (H, {A})
     ------> (L{A})

2. take any subset of labels, and see who dominates who
3. becuase information should only flow upwards eg. read down, write up

Lecture 13

1. information should only flow from low to high
2. this works, read is only allowed to read same or lower levels and write can only do same or higher
3. this works too, creates on same level. can destroy same level and higher
4. depends on what the high level does. the high level has to create object first, then not create object
5. so it will destroy the object and can use it again. could put in a loop and do this over and over again 
6. no
7. yes. no. SL could have done away with a few instructions to get the same results
8. becuase it needs to create the object. but doesn't need to create it afterwards. yes
9. it could be in violation if SL is not suppose to be able to read from the object

Lecture 14

1. its not covert becuase it doesn't utilize the system, they are just talking - just like the halway example mentioned in the video
2. no because the low-level can't read F0
3. storage covert channel
4. recorded in the ordering or duration of events on the system. - timing
5. aspects of both timing and storage 
6. implicit channel - uses control flow of program
7. because the computation might continue forever then eventually terminate. 
8. there must be power consumption
9. any kind of hardware

Lecture 15

1. can actually send a lot of information since processors operate at thousands of bits per second
2. it is difficult to detect covert channels happening until the system is attacked. 
3. modify the system, reduce bandwidth by introducing noise, can see if it is being used or not
4. sender is writing to file and reciever is viewing the file
5. some sender and receiver can see same attribute. sender is sending something while receiver is viewing it. receiver has to know when there is a change
 
Lecture 16

1. create doesn't tell you if it exists or not. 
2. for this attribute there is a mechanism where someone can read and modify it. this is what you need to have a channel
3. yes, same reason as #2
4. to see where the channels might be. secure your system!









