Name: Taylor Gregston
EID: teg282
CS Login: teg282
Email: gregstont@gmail.com

Lecture 34:
 1. Fundamental Theorem of Noiseless Channel states that C/h - e is the maximum data rate.  ie, A pipe can only fit so much.  A perfect encoding will get you near C/h.
 2. Increasing the redundacy will make it more likely for the message to get through in the presence of noise, which in turn makes the channel more reliable.

Lecture 35:
 1. h = -log(1/10)
 2. It is difficult to get accurate probabilities to use for the digrams and trigrams, etc.
 3. Zero: only considers number of symbols, First: considers the frequency of the symbols, Second: considers the likliehood of the following symbol.

Lecture 36:
 1. You have to have a complete history of the language, whether written or spoken.  This knowledge may not even be available.
 2. Depending on the amount of knowledge already known the number of available options may be different.  With less options the information content will be lower.
 3. Redundancy is the amount of extra data in a message.  A highly redundant encoding will have lower entropy than a highly efficient encoding.

Lecture 37:
 1. Its probably English because it was found in the US.  We know the complexity of the encryption is probably low because it is from a long time ago.
 2. The encyrption and decryption may always use the same static function, indpendant of any sort of key/salting.
 3. The information content is preserved but hidden so the reciever can read the message but eavesdropper cannot.
 4. One could guess that the most often used symbols are most often used in the underlying message.  This can happen in the presence of redundancy.

 Lecture 38:
  1. D(E(D(E(P)))) = P
  2. ... = D(E(E(P,Ke),e),Kd)
  3. Using traffic analysis we can gain clues about the scenario.
  4. They can use the frequency of symbols to make good guesses.

 Lecture 39:
  1. Trying the number of keys necessary to guess correctly would take years upon years to guess correctly
  2. You could guess the key and check against the cipher. Although with modern encryption this would take a very long time. It is n - 1 becuase you might get there on avg halfway through.
  3. Substitution creates confusion while transposition creates diffusion.  In combination and in great quantity a strong encrpytion can be made.
  4. Confusion is transforming information in plaintext so that it can't be intercepted and diffusion is spreading information over a region of text.
  5. Both.  Most algorithms use both in combination to make the encoding harder to detect.

 Lecture 40:
  1. Mono: each symbol is substituted uniformly over the plaintext. Poly: substitutions are made depending on where the symbol occurs.
  2. They key is the specified mapping which may just be a table.  Easily breakable.
  3. K! is the number of combinations of mappings. 
  4. They key is the number of positions you shift.
  5. The keyspace would be 26 because there are 26 letters.
  6. No it is not strong because you probably wouldnt have to guess all combinations.
  7. The decyption algoritm would use a similar table that was used for encyption.

Lecture 41:
 1. There are 26 possibilities so 26^3 = 17576
 2. If it is a simple substition we know that 2 letters are the same.
 3. Yes but it requires as many keys as possible plain texts.

Lecture 42:
 1. It is perfect because the search space for the key is the same as the messsage.
 2. It has to be random because if something is know about the key it breaks the perfect cipher.
 3. Distrubution problem describes the problem that the receiver does not have the key but needs it to decode the message.

Lecture 43:
 1. If one knows that transposition was used they can still count frequencies of symbols and they would be approximately the same as the underlying language.

Lecture 44:
 1. A one-time pad is symmentric because you use the same key.
 2. Key distribution is about getting the key to the places it is needed.  Key management is about keeping track of all your keys in a safe manner.
 3. No.  They would need the private key to decpryt the message.
 4. It depends on the circumstance.  Asymmetric solves the distribution problem.  Symmetric algorithms are usually faster.

Lecture 45:
 1. Stream ciphers have low diffusion and susceptibility to insertions and modifications.  Block has higher diffusion and immunity to tampering.
 2. It means that a change in the cipher will produce meaningful changes in the plaintext.
 3. It means that the same operations are used to encrypt and decrypt.

Lecture 46:
 1. SubBytes causes confusion by using a simple substituion with a lookup table.
 2. ShiftRows causes diffusion because depending on where the symbol is, it gets shifted a different amount (polyalphabetic).
 3. For decryption the mixcolumns step uses the inverse of the matrix which contains number which are harder to optimize.
 4. A block of 128 bytes is used as a unit called the state.  The algorithm does many passes, or rounds, on this state to eventually get the ciphertext.
 5. Increasing the number of rounds is done with higher key lengths to increase security.

Lecture 47:
 1. Identical blocks in the plaintext will yeild identical blocks in the ciphertext.
 2. It can be fixed with Cipher Block Chaining which uses the ciphertext of the previous block and xors it with the next block.
 3. Observed changes: may allow someone to pinpoint spot in cipher where text changed.  Content leak: two identical ciphertext block could yield information if xored together.
 4. Key stream uses the cipher as a random number generator which is used as a one time pad.

Lecture 48:
 1. The private key needs to be kept private.
 2. One way functions are difficult to reverse which makes finding the key very difficult.
 3. They can make the public key visible to anyone as long as they keep the private key private.
 4. {{{P}k-1}k}k-1 = {P}k-1
 5. Asymmetric algorithms may take up to 10,000 times more time to perform encrpytion.

Lecture 49:
 1. Yes because with RSA either key can be used for encryption or decryption.
 2. They play a role in the one-time function because the product of two prime numbers is difficult to factor.
 3. Yes, but it would take years and years and years.
 4. Only the person with the corresponding private key could read the message.
 5. The public key is available to anyone, so anybody could have signed/encrypted the message.
 6. Only B has the B's private key, so it must have originated from B.
 7. B's public key could be used to decrypt the message which is publicly available.
 8. By signing the message by using a pair of keys, one for privacy and the other for authorization.

Lecture 50:
 1. Because it is done often it is necessary that the function can be done efficiently.
 2. Weak resistence is when given a message it is difficult to find another message with the same hash and strong resistence is when it is hard to find two messages with the same hash aka collision.
 3. Preimage says it is hard to find the message of a given hash and second preimage says it is hard to find another message with the hash of a given message.
 4. It means a collision could be found in 1.25 * 2^64 tries.
 5. It means a collision could be found in 1.25 * 2^80 tries.
 6. It isn't used for confidentiality because anybody could just replace the hash with a recomputed hash.
 7. Collisions are unlikely.  Slight modification on the message will completely change the hash.
 8. They can append a hash and encrypt both the message and hash together.

Lecture 51:
 1. No because anybody with R's public key could decrypt the first level then use S's private key to get the rest.
 2. No because anybody with S's private key could decypt the first level and then encrypt again with their own key.
 3. No because the first option would require you to have both R and S's private key and the 2nd option you only need R's private key
 4. Authentication and confidentiality.

Lecture 52:
 1. Nothing. The eavesdropper would need to know a or b.
 2. If a were discovered then the message could be decytpted. (assuming g and p are also known)
 3. If a were discovered then the message could be decytpted. (assuming g and p are also known)