Name: Sonny David Marton
EID: sdm2755
CS Username: smartone
Email: sonnymarton@yahoo.com

CS361 Questions: Week 1

These questions relate to Module(s) 1. Type your answers and
submit them via
email to the TA by 5pm on Thursday, June 12.



Lecture 1

1. What uses of the term “security” are relevant to your every
day life?

	Security is relevent in much of what you do everyday and completely
	effects your life day to day. You want security of personal belongings,
	secrets, personal information, work related information, your car,
	your house, your family, your pets, your privacy, etc.

2. What do these have in common?

	Each of these have something that would hurt you in some way if certain
	parts of them were exposed to the wrong people. Each has something that
	you feel needs to be protected from others, each item is not perfect and
	cannot protext itself from threats because each has its vulnerabilities.

3. Have you been a victim of lax security?

	Yes, once I was not careful and I accidentally signed into a Facebook
	phishing site that obtained my facebook account info. I was being
	careless and took a link to "Facebook" from a non-Facebook page I was
	on.

4. What is the likelihood that your laptop is infected? How di
d you decide?

	It is possible that my laptop is infected because I did not install any
	security on it after I reinstalling windows from scratch because Windows 8.1 was
	freezing (surprise). This is why I believe it is possible that I could
	have an infection on my laptop, however I do not think it is very likely
	because I have barely used my laptop since the update and I have only used
	sites that I trust and believe are non-malicious.

5. What security measures do you employ on your laptop?

	For physical measure of security I always ensure that my laptop is within view
	and reach in a public place if possible, or with someone I completely trust
	with it.

	For software related security I need to reinstall my antivirus and other
	security software.

6. Do you think they are probably effective?

	Physical: I believe it is effective, however there are times when I have
	been more vilnurable for attack when I am in a public place, say the GDC,
	studying and I have to go to the restroom so I ask a stranger who is in the
	room to watch my stuff, not smart. There is also the extreme case of being
	mugged by someone dangerous.

	Software: right now I do not believe I have very effective security since I
	do not have the appropriate software installed to help defend against any
	and all attacks. However, I believe even with the proper software installed
	it is still very possible to become infected since there are always new and
	better ways of breaking security becoming prevelant.

7. Consider the quote from the FBI official on slide 10. Do you think
it over-states the case? Justify your answer.

	I believe this over state the case and uses the ambiguitiy of the phrase
	"have the ability to access virtually any computer system". Having access
	is ambigous because we do not know what the threat could actually do with
	this access. I believe it is very unlikely that a threat would be able to
	find some security breach that would work on "virtually any computer
	system". So again, I believe it is very over-stated since I believe it is
	impossible to hack every computer system.

8. What is the importance in learning about computer security?

	The protection of ourselves and the information we have on our computers
	and on the internet, protection of others that trust the software I have
	written, or helped with, and stopping malicious attackers who are looking
	to do bad through breaching security.



Lecture 2

1. Consider the five reasons given why security is hard. Can yo
u think of other factors?

	Using the software in an unintended way, not understanding what security the
	software has promised to provide.

2. Is there a systematic way to enumerate the “bad things” that
might happen to a program? Why or why not?

	There is no way to enumerate the "bad things" in totality, however all common
	and well known "bad things" can and should be tested for. However some of these
	"bad things" are not done in a systematic way, but they are done manually which
	means that you likely cannot test for them systematically. This would mean that
	the only way to enumerate all of the common and well known "bad things" would
	have to include a manual way as well as a systematic way to enumerate as many
	of the "bad things" as possible.

3. Explain the asymmetry between the defender and attacker in security.

	An attacker only has to find one vulnerablility and use it maliciously to
	do his job. While, on the other hand, the defender is trying to protect from
	all possible attacks. A defender may only spend a fraction of the time on a
	certain aspect of security which he things he has made bullet proof, but when
	an attacker spend a tremendous more amount of time looking for a way to hack
	the same specific apsect of security.

4. Examine the quotes from Morris and Chang. Do you agree? Why or why not?

	I agree with what they are saying. The only 100% effective way to ensure computer
	security is by completely getting rid of the computer. There are always going to
	be new ways of breaching security becoming prevalent and we will never be able to
	protect against all of them. Getting rid of the computer, you may even have to
	burn it mwahaha, is the only way to ensure that no attacks will happen against it.

5. Explain the statement on slide 8 that a tradeoff is typically required.

	When adding security there is always a tradeoff of better security for some other
	important goal that the system has. It is likely that the security is making the
	system more complex, ultimitaly slowing it down, making it harder to use (from
	adding more personal verification), efficiency (more code running in the
	background), time-to-market (more code means more time writing and testing it),
	simplicity (again you added more code which makes it more complex).



Lecture 3

1. Define “risk”?

	The possibility that a particular threat will adversly impact an information
	sustem by exploiting a particular vulnerability.

2. Do you agree that software security is about managing risk?

	Yes, since we can not have perfect security with no risk, we must be willing to
	accept security with a certain amount of rish that we consider managable or
	acceptable.

3. Name and explain a risk you accept, one you avoid, one you mitigate,
and one you transfer?

	Accept: One risk I accept is that someone could get my bank information because
	I purchase a lot of things online from a variety of websites, most car parts.

	Avoid: I avoid getting in trouble for alcohol by not drinking it.

	Mitigate: I lock the door to my apartment when I leave but there is still a
	possibility that it could be broken into, however locking the door does reduce
	the likeliness.

	Transfer: I pay for medical insurance, so that if I incure medical bills the
	insurance company pays for them, rather than me.

4. Evaluate annualized loss expectancy as a risk management tool.

	ALC helps with long term risk assesment. However it is not a good indicator of
	how much could be lost in a short amount of time, because it spreads the loss
	over a long period of time. ALC is good as a risk managment tool but other
	tools need to be used in conjunction with it.

5. List some factors relevant to rational risk assessment.

	Assets, threats, vulnerabilities, risks, countermeasures, and ultimate decisions.



Lecture 4

1. Explain the key distinction between the lists on slides 2 and 3.

	Slide 2 is a list of the goals or aspects that you want in a secure system. Slide
	3 is a list of mechanisms (not complete) that help achieve the goals on slide 2.

2. Consider your use of computing in your personal life. Which is most im-
portant: confidentiality, integrity, availability? Justify your answer.

	"It all depends on the context". In differenct scenerios you want different
	aspects of security. Sometimes you want all, but some are considered more
	important than others in certain contexts.

3. What does it mean “to group and categorize data”?

	To organize data in a way that helps you with authorization because it aids in
	sorting the information into categories of levels of security needed, levels of
	encryption, authorization, etc.

4. Why might authorizations change over time?

	Users may be added/removed from the system when hired/fired, users may be moved up
	or down in rank/privaledge/authority.

5. Some of the availability questions seem to relate more to reliability than to security.
How are the two related?

	Reliability should be a characteristic of a secure system. If the system indeed
	does have good security then measures have been taken to keep good availability,
	which in turn is directly related to the reliability of the system. 

6. In what contexts would authentication and non-repudiation be considered important?

	Authentication is important in any system in which only certain users should be
	able to access certain data.

	Non-repudiation is important in any system in which a tranfer or transaction is
	made between two users, where neither should be able to back out once "the
	transaction has been submitted".



Lecture 5

1. Describe a possible metapolicy for a cell phone network? A military database?

	Cell phone network: Ensure that all customers have availability of the network
	24/7.

	Military database: Confidentiality and integrity of all information on the
	database to ensure that the countries safety is not compromised.

2. Why do you need a policy if you have a metapolicy?

	You need a policy because it sets the rules in which the metapolicy will be
	achieved. A metapolicy without a policy will be hard to achieve because the
	way in which you will achieve the metapolicy is vague or even non existent.

3. Give three possible rules within a policy concerning students’ academic records.

	1. All changed to academic records must be cleared and approved through the
	registrar.

	2. Academic records are only accessable online to the student to which they
	belong, using their student id and password.

	3. Parents are able to access their child's records by going to the registrar's
	office in person.

4. Could stakeholders’ interest conflict in a policy? Give an example.

	Yes, the stakeholders may feel that certain parts of the policy conflict with
	their needs of the system. Ex. The policy may say that the data can not be
	accessed online, but the stakeholders have a need to access the information from
	anwhere in the world.

5. For the example given involving student SSNs, state the likely metapolicy.

	Complete confidentiality of the student's SSNs that are stored by the school

6. Explain the statement: ”If you don’t understand the metapolicy, it becomes
difficult to justify and evaluate the policy.”

	"The rules will seem arbitrary and capricious". Without understanding the
	metapolicy, the policy will not be able to be understood as an overall goal.
	One could not assess if the policy satisfies the metapolicy.



Lecture 6

1. Why is military security mainly about confidentiality? Are there also
aspects of integrity and availability?

	Without confidentiality the military would not be able to do things as
	secret missions, and the enemy could learn the war plans and other information
	that would give them an advantage. Integrity is also important becuase you do
	not want someone moving information around in the system in ways that would
	effect confidentiality of certain documents. Availability is also important
	becuase information is likely needed on the fly for certain missions, projects,
	etc.

2. Describe the major threat in our MLS thought experiment.

	Information being read by someone who will use it in a malicious way against the
	military, confidentiality is needed. Information needs to be seperated yet allow
	access to certain information to certain users.

3. Why do you think the proviso is there?

	Later their could be counter intuitive results if we focused on the wrong things.

4. Explain the form of the labels we’re using.

	1. Sensitivity level: this splits the information into categories of who should
	be able to access it according to the amount of information they are allowed to
	know, how deep of secrets they can know.

	2. "Need-to-know": this splits the information into categories of what the info
	pertains to. You do not want a user to be able to access all info in a
	sensitivity level that they have access to.

5. Why do you suppose we’re not concerned with how the labels get there?

	This seems more of an issue of physial security, non-computer related. This falls
	outside of the field of what we are aiming at.

6. Rank the facts listed on slide 6 by sensitivity.

	Unclassified: The base softball team has a game tomorrow at 3pm.

	Top Secret: The Normandy invasion is scheduled for June 6.

	Unclassified: The cafeteria is serving chopped beef on toast today.

	Confidential: Col. Jones just got a raise.

	Confidential: Col. Smith didn’t get a raise.

	Secret: The British have broken the German Enigma codes.

7. Invent labels for documents containing each of those facts.

	Co-ed Sports: The base softball team has a game tomorrow at 3pm.

	War Plans: The Normandy invasion is scheduled for June 6.

	None: The cafeteria is serving chopped beef on toast today.

	HR and Col Jones: Col. Jones just got a raise.

	HR and Col. Smith: Col. Smith didn’t get a raise.

	None: The British have broken the German Enigma codes.

8. Justify the rules for “mixed” documents.

	The bar must be set to the highest level of security, if this was not the case
	then a user would have access to something more sensitive than their level, this
	breaches confidentiality. For a document with mixed "need-to-know", you do not
	want a user learning information that they should not have access to. For a
	document labeled "medical, mission 109", you do not want a doctor who needs
	medical records to know about the specifics of mission 109. 



Lecture 7

1. Document labels are stamped on the outside. How are “labels” affixed to humans?

	Labels are affixed to humans by the amount of trust you have in the human as well
	as the information that pertains to their job.

2. Explain the difference in semantics of labels for documents and labels for
humans.

	For a document a label indicates what is in the document, however for a human
	it indicated how much you trust them as well as what information you trust them
	with and the areas in which they are allowed to operate.

3. In the context of computers what do you think are the analogues of docu-
ments? Of humans?

	Documents : Data or file
	Humans : Users

4. Explain why the Principle of Least Privilege makes sense.

	If they cannot get the information then they cannot leak it out of the system.
	It eliminates the possiblity that they will leak information that does not
	pertain to them.

5. For each of the pairs of labels on slide 6, explain why the answers in the
third column do or do not make sense.

	1: A subject should be able to access all information that pertains to him that
	reside in the lower sensitivity categories, he should be able to know what his
	subordinates know.

	2: A subject should not be able to access information that is higher than he is,
	the "Principle of Least Privilege"

	3: Unclassified information should be able to be seen by anyone as long as they
	have the "need-to-know" category, and since their is not one, everyone should
	be able to access that data.


Lecture 8:

1. Why do you think we introduced the vocabulary terms: objects, subjects, actions?

	They can be used in all cases in the MLS system regardless of what they
	stand for. It is a lot more versatile/universal.

2. Prove that dominates is a partial order (reflexive, transitive, antisymmetric).
	
	">=" used for dominates,	

	Reflexive: A => A

	Transitive: If A>=B and B>=C then A>=C

	Antisymmetric: If A>=B and B>=A then A=B

3. Show that dominates is not a total order.

	Both A>=B and B>=A can be false.

4. What would have to be true for two labels to dominate each ot her?

	They would be identical labels.

5. State informally what the the Simple Security property says.

	If a subject dominates an object then it can read that object and anything lower
	than it, a subject can only "read down"

6. Explain why it’s “only if” and not “if and only if.”

	Because there may be other security constraints in order to access the object.
	You could not impose other security measures if "if and only if" were used.



Lecture 9

1. Why isn’t Simple Security enough to ensure confidentiality?

	We do not consider all access types. Confidentiality can be breached if subject
	copies information from a higher sensitivity level to a lower one, then a subject
	of lower sensitivity is reading a document that came from higher sensitivity.

2. Why do we need constraints on write access?

	Information can be leaked and confidentiality can be breached because of a write
	that meets the Simple Security Property but breakes confidentiality. Simple
	Security is not a good enough policy to ensure that the metapolicy of
	confidentiality is not breached.

3. What is it about computers, as opposed to human beings, that makes that
particularly important?

	Not only is there clearance issues, but you must also consider all of the programs
	on that persons computer, and you do not know if these programs are malicious with
	some sort of Trojan horse or spyware. Then the confidential information could be
	written to a lower level or sent off to someone who would normally not be able to
	see it.

4. State informally what the *-Property says.

	You can write to any object that you are dominated by, a subject can only
	"write up".

5. What must be true for a subject to have both read and write access to an
object?

	The subject's label must be equal to the object's label.

6. How could we deal with the problem that the General (top secret) can’t send
orders to the private (Unclassified)?

	If there were any system that allowed a communication between the two their would
	always be a chance that confidentiality would be breached, therefore I do not
	think there is any electronic way in which this could be done. I believe that this
	would need to be done in a system where there is a group of subjects in the room
	so that they watch eachother.

7. Isn’t it a problem that a corporal can overwrite the war plan? Suggest how
we might deal with that.

	This is not a violation of confidentiality, but of integrity, which we have not
	stated as part of the metapolicy of our MLS system. A object should be marked
	with an author so that the subject can know who wrote the object, this way they
	would not be tricked.



Lecture 10

1. Evaluate changing a subject’s level (up or down) in light of weak tranquility.

	When moving a level of a subject up is bad because it can now view higher level
	objects. Lowering the level of a subject could also be bad, considered as a write
	down, the information they know must be considered.

2. Why not just use strong tranquility all the time?

	A system is likely to have a need for changing the level of subjects and objects
	since it is unlikely that any useful system would not need this ability.

3. Explain why lowering the level of an object may be dangerous.

	It could breach confidentiality.

4. Explain what conditions must hold for a downgrade (lowering object level)
to be secure.

	The information must keep its same "need-to-know" categories and it must be
	authorized to be lowered by someone who is actually trusted, who this trusted
	person is, I do not know.



Lecture 11:

1. Suppose you wanted to build a (library) system in which all subjects had
read access to all files, but write access to none of them. What
levels could you give to subjects and objects?

	Subjects {H, {A, B, C}}

	Objects {L, {}}	

2. Why wouldn’t you usually build an access control matrix for a BLP system?

	Because the matrix would have thousands of subjects and thousands of objects
	which would take up a lot of space, and the values for access could easily be
	computed using the star property and simple security.



Lecture 12

1. Suppose you had hierarchical levels L, H with L < H, but 
only had one category A. Draw the lattice. (Use your keyboard and editor to 
draw it; it doesn’t have to be fancy.)


		{H,{A}}
		   ^  ^ 
		   |   \
		   |	{H,{}}
		   |	 ^
		 {L,{A}} |
		   ^     |
			\    |
			{L,{}}

2. Given any two labels in a BLP system, what is the algorithm f
or finding their LUB and GLB?

	Find the highest and lowest point in the lattice that it is connected to.

3. Explain why upward flow in the lattice really is the metapolicy for BLP.

	The upward flow in a lattice indicated that the information only flows upward in
	the system, which by itself ensure confidentiality, the metapolicy of BLP.



Lecture 13

1. Explain how the BLP rules are supposed to enforce the metapolicy in the
example on slide 1.

	If the BLP are met then it should be impossible for information to flow downward
	in the system. Since info cannot flow downward then it is supposed to be
	impossible for confidentiality to be breached.

2. Argue that the READ and WRITE operations given satisfy BLP.

	Read does not hinder confidentiality because information can only flow up, a high
	level subject can only read an object that is lower or equal to him.

	Write does not hinder confidentiality because information can only flow up, a
	subject can only write to an object that is at his same level or higher.

3. Argue that the CREATE and DESTROY operations given satisfy BLP.

	Create satisfies BLP because it does not have any information in the new object,
	therefore it cannot move data.

	Destroy only allows the subject to modify objects at the same level or higher than
	itself, therefor data can only flow up.

4. What has to be true for the covert channel on slide 5 to work?

	Read must return a 0 if it fails to read the object, this indicates that SH did
	create the object (we know we only get a 0 on failure because 1 is written to the
	object in both cases).

5. Why is the DESTROY statement there?

	So they can go back and do it with the same name, possibly then doing the sequence
	in a loop to transer an arbitrary amount of info.

6. Are the contents of any files different in the two paths?

	The contents of the file are the exact same in the two files, they start out as
	NULL or 0 when the file is created then in both cases they are set to 1 and remain
	the same until the object is destroyed.

7. Why does SL do the same thing in both cases? Must it?

	SL must do the same thing in both cases, because it does not know if SH contacted
	it or not, it is not predetermanistic. It cannot read the message before it
	recieves it, therefore if must always act in the same way or the result could give
	a false value of 0.

8. Why does SH do different things? Must it?

	Yes, SH must do different things, this is how the information, a bit at a time, is
	sent to SL. If SH always acted in the same way then there would be no messaged it
	could pass to SL. SH does 2 different things, one to indicate a 1 and the other
	to indicate a 0.

9. Justify the statement on slide 7 that begins: “If SL ever sees...”

	If SH is able to get any type of communication from SL then information could be
	transfered from high to low which is a clear violation of confidentiality, the
	metapolicy, regardless of how slow it would be. This covert channel would allow
	a tranfer of information that the policy did not protect against, therefore
	jeoporadizing the metapolic



Lecture 14

1. Explain why “two human users talking over coffee is not a co
vert channel.”

	Talking is intended to be used as a way of communication, it is not utilizing
	something designed for some non-communative purposes to communicate. It is doing
	its intended purpose.

2. Is the following a covert channel? Why or why not?
	  Send 0       |      Send 1
   ------------------------------------------
     Write (SH, F0, 0) | Write (SH, F0, 1)
     Read (SL, F0)     | Read (SL, F0)

	No, there is no information that is transfered, the read will always return a 0
	since SL is not able to read from f0. They are also trying to rely on the actual
	data stored in the object which would not be a covert channel.

3. Where does the bit of information transmitted “reside” in
Covert Channel #1?
	
	It resides in the error message, the state of the system. This is a storage
	covert channel.

4. In Covert Channel #2?

	The information is transmitted in the clock by either running your total clock
	time or only a fraction, then the other process looks at the clock and notes how
	long it was since he last ran. This variance in time is used as a covert timing
	channel.

5. In Covert Channel #3?

	The information is stored in the location of where the hard disk head sat, which
	is seen by the other process by seeing which order he gets his reads back in. This
	has aspects of both a timing channel and a storage channel.

6. In Covert Channel #4?

	The value of l is influenced by the value of h, so the info resides in the value
	of h. This is an implicit channel.

7. Why might a termination channel have low bandwidth?

	It is likely that the process or whatever is terminating does not automatically
	turn back on, therefore it cannot be run constantly, and even if it it does turn
	on automatically boot time is not too fast, transfering a bit every few seconds
	is not a high bandwidth.

8. What would have to be true to implement a power channel?

	You would have to be able to measure the amount of power used, which means that
	you likely already have some sort of way to watch the power user. The high level
	must be able to sense the change and the low level must be able to modulate the
	amount of power used.

9. For what sort of devices might power channels arise?

	Power channels would likely be used in more hardware dependent and higher power
	consuming devices. Possibly power lines where someone would be able to control
	how much power is ran trough them and someone else is able to measure the power
	running through them. 



Lecture 15

1. Explain why covert channels, while appearing to have such
a low band-width, can potentially be very serious threats.

	In realistic scenerios they can "operate at thousands of bits per second" while
	not affecting performance. They can be used to send a lot of bits that could
	actually make up a piece of data that could cause some damage.

2. Why would it be infeasible to eliminate every potential covert channel?

	It would likely hinder the performance because of the modifications needed to
	eliminate all of the covert channels. There would likely be a lot even in a small
	system. There is also no reason to eliminate all that could potentially be used
	if they are actually not being used. Don't fix it if it ain't broke.
	

3. If detected, how could one respond appropriately to a covert channel?

	change the implementation, introduce noise to reduce the bandwidth, monitor the
	channel to see if anyone is using it (it is not a problem if no one is using it).

4. Describe a scenario in which a covert storage channel exists.

	"Both sender and receiver must have access to some attribute of a shared object.

	The sender must be able to modify the attribute.

	The receiver must be able to reference (view) that attribute.

	A mechanism for initiating both processes, and sequencing their
	accesses to the shared resource, must exist"

5. Describe how this covert storage channel can be utilized by the sender and
receiver.

	The sender would update the attribute to a 1 or 0, depending on what he is
	trying to pass along. The sender would then view or save the 1 or 0 saved in the
	attribute and then the process would start over again. Their actions would have to
	be timed properly in order to achieve success.



Lecture 16

1. Why wouldn’t the “create” operation have an R in the SRMM for the “file
existence” attribute?

	It does not directly let you know that the object is made, create does not
	reference to you that the object is created.

2. Why does an R and M in the same row of an SRMM table indicate a poten-tial channel?

	For that attribute there is a mechanism in which someone can modify it and someone
	can reference it. However it does not tell you that it is there, but that it could
	be there.

3. If an R and M are in the same column of an SRMM table, does this
also indicate a potential covert channel? Why or why not?

	No, because you are looking for an attribute that they share, and this does not
	indicate or tell you if they share an attribute, looking in a column helps you in
	no way.

4. Why would anyone want to go through the trouble to create an
SRMM table?

	It would allow you to easilyfind potential covert channels that you may want to
	get rid of or modify to break the possibility. 
