D: tfs385
CS Login:fatima
Email:tehreemsyed@utexas.edu

CS361 Questions: Week 3

The questionsmarked with a dagger (†) require external research and may be more
extensive and time consuming. You don’t have to do them for the assignment but,
but do them to increase your competency in the class.

Lecture 34

1. Why is it impossible to transmit a signal over a channel at an average rate
greater than C/h?
Ans. Because, the perfect encoding can only be equal to C/h not more. 

2. How can increasing the redundancy of the coding scheme increase the reliability
of transmitting a message over a noisy channel?
Ans. Increasing the redundancy increases the uncertainty but even with that uncertainty as long as the emssage is readable it is fine which is why we use it in covert channels. T0-0

Lecture 35

1. If we want to transmit a sequence of the digits 0-9. According to the zeroorder
model, what is the entropy of the language?
  h = - (log 1/10) 

2. What are reasons why computing the entropy of a natural language is difficult?
 There are so many factors for it:
 All natural languages have redundancy but the likelihood of a letter of a language to occur again follows different rules. The assumption that all will have same probability or some have more than others cannot be generalized in  a natural language. 

3. Explain the difference between zero, first, second and third-order models.
 
 The zero order model says that all charecters in the english language are equally likely to occur and the netropy is 4.75 per word.
 
 The second order model says that some charecters occur more than other charecters and are independent of each other. So the probability per symbol is 4.219
 
 The third order models suggest that some letters follow othe rletters frequently but not all. Like two letters come one after another but another symbol generally comes after it. The entropy of third order model is 2.77 bits per symbol.



Lecture 36

1. Why are prior probabilities sometimes impossible to compute?
 
 The likelihood of an event occuring is neever the same all the time. 

2. Why is the information content of a message relative to the state of knowledge
of an observer?
It is so because the more the listener knows the less information you need to convey to reduce his uncertainty. Such as teh winner of emmy awards. It depends on how much the individual listening knows about the scenario. 


3. Explain the relationship between entropy and redundancy.

Entropy can be used to measure the amount of“redundancy” in the encoding. If the information content 
a message is equal to the length of the encding message, there is no redundancy. 
If an encoding’s eﬃciency matches the entropy, there is no
redundancy to compress out. You cant do any compression or do any better. Thats what a random string is .

Lecture 37
1. List your observations along with their relevance to cryptography about
Captain Kidd’s encrypted message.
 1. The language is english . 
 2. Directional words such as north , south, east ,w est
 3. Charecteristivs of teh source language: the use of some letters occuring mire than other letters.

2. Explain why a key may be optional for the processes of encryption or decryption.
   BEcauae of someone who does not know how to decrpt he message can access it and get the messahe. 

3. What effect does encrypting a file have on its information content?
The purpose of encryption is to render the message less useful / meaningful to the intruder. 

4. How can redundancy in the source give clues to the decoding process?
Because the repitition can help an attacker to decyrpt a message.

CS361 Questions: Week 3 2
Lecture 38
1. Rewrite the following in its simplest form: D(E(D(E(P)))).
  decryption rule , encryption rule, decryption rule, encryption rule and plain text.
   
   P = D(E(D(E(P))))

2. Rewrite the following in its simplest form: D(E(E(P,KE),KE),KD).
   P = D(E(E(P,Ke),Ke)KD) = {{{P}Ke}Ke}Kd}
3. Why might a cryptanalyst want to recognize patterns in encrypted messages?
   To break an encryption scenario without breaking the enrcyption algorithm and to find weakness in the algorithm. 

4. How might properties of language be of use to a cryptanalyst?
   The frequencies of symbols in english can help looking at teh pattern of encryption. 
  
Lecture 39
1. Explain why an encryption algorithm, while breakable, may not be feasible
to break?
  A lot of algorithm just use a bitsrting as keys of n bits say so so you could use 2^n possible strings so they are breakable. Modern say 2^256 bits of possibilities, it is longer to decipher but it is still possible. 

2. Why, given a small number of plaintext/ciphertext pairs encrypted under
key K, can K be recovered by exhausteive search in an expected time on the
order of 2n−1 operations?

  If there is no better way to break it than trying all the keys sequentially, if you try all the keys you find teh right onw but we want the key search to be the longest possible.  As n gets bigger the key gets bigger.

3. Explain why substution and transposition are both important in ciphers.
   substitution: replacing one symbol in plain txt and changing it.
   trasposition: taking symbols and moving them around. 
   We use these because  in combination they are very powerful becaise they accomplish confusion and diffusion which causes the attacker to not get teh actual text. 

4. Explain the difference between confusion and diffusion.
  Confusion: transforming information in plaintext so that an
   interceptor cannot readily extract it.
   
   Diﬀusion: spreading the information from a region of plaintext
    widely over the ciphertext.
    Substitution tends to be good at confusion; transposition t
      ends to be good at diﬀusion.

5. Is confusion or diffusion better for encryption?
     Yes it is. 

Lecture 40
1. What is the difference between monoalphabetic and polyalphabetic substitution?
   If this is done uniformly this is called a
monoalphabetic cipher or simple substitution cipher.

If diﬀerent substitutions are made depending on where in the
plaintext the symbol occurs, this is called a
polyalphabetic
substitution.

2. What is the key in a simple substitution cipher?
    A simple sub cipher is just a mapping from one alphabet to another alphabet and key is how you specify that mapping. For eg, table of map a to x and b to y and so on. 

3. Why are there k! mappings from plaintext to ciphertext alphabets in simple
substitution?
    Because there are finite number of k possibikities for that substitution. 

4. What is the key in the Caesar Cipher example?
    Monoalphabetic cipher. The  key is how many positions you shift and size of the keyspace is 25 . 

5. What is the size of the keyspace in the Caesar Cipher example?
  25 /26 how you look at it. 
6. Is the Caesar Cipher algorithm strong?
Not so much. I tis still breakable. 

7. What is the corresponding decryption algorithm to the Vigenere ciphertext
example?
Using ketter pairs to look up the encyption and that would be 
26 Ceaser ciphers. Column n row m then whatever is at teh position is your anser. So as you continue that way you get the corresponding decryption cipher.

CS361 Questions: Week 3 3
Lecture 41
1. Why are there 17576 possible decryptions for the “xyy” encoding on slide
3?
 26^3 = 17576  each of x and ys could correspond to different letters .

2. Why is the search space for question 2 on slide 3 reduced by a factor of 27?
  Additional information that it is a simple substitution cipher and 25 * 26 = 650. 
   We have a much easier time breaking this thing . xyy represent an enlish word. There are only around 40 possibilites.

3. Do you think a perfect cipher is possible? Why or why not?
  I think it is not but we will find out later. However, it is exists but then the possible numer of keys should be same as the cipher text. 


Lecture 42
1. Explain why the one-time pad offers perfect encryption.
   there are 15 bt strings for each. 2^15 bit  possibilties. 
   Every possible plaintext could be the pre-image of that ciphertext
   under a plausible key. Therefore, no reduction of the search space is possible
   Anyone of thos possible plaintext might be a preimage of taht cipher text unde rthat algorithm. 
   You just haveto find teh appropriate key bitstrings. 

2. Why is it important that the key in a one-time pad be random?
 Imagine that you knew something about the key that it had an even parity and if you worked backwords and the cipher text you could remove more than half of the cipher text which is why yougeenrate the key randomly. 

3. Explain the key distribution problem.
If the key is just as long as the plain text and geenrate the cipher text if the same length. The sender and reciever should have a secure channel to send the key but then you could just send the text. And if tehre is a secure channel how do you send the key. 

Lecture 43

1. What is a downside to using encryption by transposition?
The algorithm involves no additional work beyond rearranging the characters, so has time complexity linear in the length of the message.

Unlike simple substitution, it has greater space complexity since the message can’t be decrypted until it has been read in its entirety. This may be an issue for very long messages, and causes a delay in the decryption.

By rearranging the order of characters, the first-level entropy of the text is maintained, but higher levels are disrupted. That is, letter frequencies are preserved in the ciphertext, but the frequencies of digrams, trigrams, etc. are not.

Hence, if an analysis shows that the first level entropy of the ciphertext is that of the source language, a transposition may be in use. Then a systematic approach is called for.

Lecture 44
1. Is a one-time pad a symmetric or asymmetric algorithm?
 Its symmetric. 

2. Describe the difference between key distribution and key management.

Key distribution:how do we convey keys to those who need them to establish secure communication.
Figure out which key to give to which reciever. 

Key management:given a large number of keys, how do we preserve their safety and make them available as needed.

3. If someone gets a hold of Ks, can he or she decrypt S’s encrypted messages?
Why or why not?
If you enrypt with that key they only way you can decrypt is with a private key so he cant decrypt the message with the same key because we dont have  asecure channel so we dont send the key securely.

4. Are symmetric encryption systems or public key systems better?
 I would say public key system but it is extremely expensive.           f

Lecture 45
1. Why do you suppose most modern symmetric encryption algorithms are
block ciphers?
Because, it seems faster for larger pieces of data. Other reasons are:

1.High diﬀusion: information from one plaintext symbol is
diﬀused into several ciphertext symbols.
2.Immunity to tampering:
diﬃcult to insert symbols without detection.

2. What is the significance of malleability?
An encryption algorithm is said to be malleable
if transformations on the ciphertext produce meaningful changes in the plaintext.
Malleability means being able to manipulate ciphertext wit
h predictable eﬀects on plaintext.

3. What is the significance of homomorphic encryption?
Homomorphic encryption is a form of encryption where a specific algebraic operation performed on the plaintext is equivalent to another (possibly different) algebraic operation performed on the ciphertext.

Homomorphic encryption schemes are malleable by design. The homomorphic property of various cryptosystems can be used to create secure voting systems, collision-resistant hash functions, and private information retrieval schemes.

CS361 Questions: Week 3 4
Lecture 46
1. Which of the 4 steps in AES uses confusion and how is it done?
 	MixColumns confuses people 
2. Which of the 4 steps in AES uses diffusion and how is it done?
	

3. Why does decryption in AES take longer than encryption?

	Inverting the MixColumns step requires multiplying each co
lumn by a fixed array. 
For that reason, decryption typically takes longer than enc
ryption

4. Describe the use of blocks and rounds in AES.

AES uses a block of 128-bits.
AES allows keys of size 128-bits, 192-bits, and 256-bits, with
10, 12, 14 rounds, respectively.


5. Why would one want to increase the total number of Rounds in AES?
TO make it more accurate. 

Lecture 47
1. What is a disadvantage in using ECB mode?
2. How can this flaw be fixed?
3. What are potential weaknesses of CBC?
4. How is key stream generation different from standard block encryption
modes?
Lecture 48
1. For public key systems, what must be kept secret in order to ensure secrecy?
2. Why are one-way functions critical to public key systems?
3. How do public key systems largely solve the key distribution problem?
4. Simplify the following according to RSA rules: {{{P}K−1}K}K−1.
5. Compare the efficiency of asymmetric algorithms and symmetric algorithms.
Lecture 49
1. If one generated new RSA keys and switched the public and private keys,
would the algorithm still work? Why or why not?
2. Explain the role of prime numbers in RSA.
3. Is RSA breakable?
4. Why can no one intercepting {M}Ka read the message?
CS361 Questions: Week 3 5
5. Why can’t A be sure {M}Ka came from B?
6. Why is A sure {M}K−1
b
originated with B?
7. How can someone intercepting {M}K−1
b
read the message?
8. How can B ensure authentication as well as confidentiality when sending a
message to A?
Lecture 50
1. Why is it necessary for a hash function to be easy to compute for any given
data?
2. What is the key difference between strong and weak collision resistance of
a hash function.
3. What is the difference between preimage resistance and second preimage
resistance?
4. What are the implications of the birthday attack on a 128 bit hash value?
5. What are the implications of the birthday attack on a 160 bit hash value?
6. Why aren’t cryptographic hash functions used for confidentiality?
7. What attribute of cryptographic hash functions ensures that message M is
bound to H(M), and therefore tamper-resistant?
8. Using RSA and a cryptographic hash function, how can B securely send a
message to A and guarantee both confidentiality and integrity?
Lecture 51
1. For key exchange, if S wants to send key K to R, can S send the following
message: {{K}KS−1}K−1
R
? Why or why not?
2. In the third attempt at key exchange on slide 5, could S have done the encryptions
in the other order? Why or why not?
3. Is {{{K}KS−1}KR}KS equivalent to {{K}K−1
S
}KR?
4. What are the requirements of key exchange and why?
CS361 Questions: Week 3 6
Lecture 52
1. What would happen if g, p and gamodp were known by an eavesdropper
listening in on a Diffie-Hellman exchange?
2. What would happen if a were discovered by an eavesdropper listening in on
a Diffie-Hellman exchange?
3. What would happen if b were discovered by an eavesdropper listening in on
a Diffie-Hellman exchange?
