Jetharin Kevin Charoenworawat
JKC2237
KChar
KevinCharoenworawat@gmail.com

CS 361 Questions: Week 1
Lecture 1:
1. Security to me mainly refers to my personal data protection such as credit card info. or my social security number being kept confidential.
2. The comminality is in that data must not be let out to those whom it was not intended to be released to.
3. Luckily nothing has happened to me however my Dad's credit card information was used in the past.
4. I would like to say that there is a low chance of my laptop being infected as I am very cautious about downloading/accessing web pages.
5. I employ self-awareness as well as keeping everything up-to-date as far as software.
6. Hopefully I am being effective but at the same time it is always a worry.
7. It's a bit dramatic however I do think that a group of hackers can definitely punch a hole in our every day lives.  I just think that we would be able to stop them before the world tears itself apart.
8. The importance of learning about computer security is to increase awareness to the problems and holes in our systems so that we may present preventative measures.

Lecture 2:
1. Security is hard because it is such a broad term.  It could mean an infinite number of things but a wise man once said that it all comes down to the documentation.  I think the main factor is that security isn't a main point.  It is often an after-thought.
2. There isn't a sure-fire method because you cannot protect against the things you don't think/know about.  
3. The defender has to find and eliminate all vulnerabilities but the attacker only needs one.
4. I pretty much agree because there is no way to ensure that all 3 parts (CIA) are attainable. 
5. The tradeoff is a result of enabling the overall goal of the system.  If security was the only priority then the overall functionality/robustness would suffer.

Lecture 3:
1. Risk is the possibility that a particular thread will adversely impact an information system by exploiting a particular vulnerability.
2. I agree with the statement because it is virtually impossible to create perfect security (tradeoff).
3. I accept that I may be struck with lightning.  I drive safer in order to avoid crashes. I buy insurance in case my home burns down.
4. The ALE is a good metric which takes into account not only the amount of risk but the percentage of that risk happening.  It is misleading however as even if the ALE is higher for a certain loss type, another may mean the end of a company.
5. Technical, economical, psycholgical, physical, etc.

Lecture 4:
1. The CIA triangle are the major aspects of computer security and the topics on slide three are the mechanisms to protect one or more of the aspects of CIA.
2. I would say that availabiliy is the most important to me as my data is not of high value to me as I do not store anything that needs to be confidential.  Integrity is not too much of a personal issue as everything important is insured.
3. This means to parsel out data so that protection is evenly distributed.
4. Positions may change in the company and the person may need to know more data in order to do his job.
5. These are related because if a system is unreliable then it will be unavailable.
6. Authentication and non-repudiation would be most important in the contexts of e-commerce when the buyer and seller must be verified and the transaction participants must be known.

Lecture 5:
1. The metapolicy would be for only those paying for service to have access to the cell phone network.  For the military database, only those with adequate access to information may be able view the data.
2. The actual policy outlines how the metapolicy is achieved.
3. Students may only read their grades, faculty must submit grade change forms, and the grades may only be accessed by having a correct login.
4. The interest could conflict in that the rate may change and thus the policy must adapt.
5. SSNs must be kept confidential and be accessable only to those faculty dealing with administration.
6. If you don't have/know your goal then you cannot shape a policy to reach that goal.

Lecture 6:
1. This is because there are so many different people with varying access levels. Integrity and availability are also involved but are less important as it is vital that those without adequate access be kept away from the confidential data.
2. The main threat would be integrity as writing up is allowed which means that a nobody could overwrite the war plans.
3. The proviso is present in order to handle the extranous stipulations that may occur.
4. The labels used are high and low where high dominates low.
5. This is because we're dealing with confidentiality only and thus only need to be concerned with access.
6. The rank in decreasing sensitivity: 2, 6, 4, 5, 3, 1.
7. I think the basic labels of unclassified, secret, and top-secret are valid for these facts.
8. Mixed documents are those that have both classified and unclassified information.  These will be labeld as classified overall though.

Lecture 7:
1. Humans have the labels of Mr Ms Sr... and so forth.
2. Labels for documents indicate the sensitivity and labels for human represent the classes of information that person is authorized to access.
3. The analogues of documents for computers would be OS files and the analogues for humans would be privelege levels.
4. Essentially theres no need for someone to have information on something that doesn't pertain to their job. This reduces leaked information.
5. The first row makes sense because the secret individual can view things lower.  The second example makes sense because the individual cannot view documents higher than his classification.  The last example makes sense because anyone can view unclassified.
Lecture 8:
1. These terms give us the foundation for what parties are involved in a secure system so that everything is kept consistent.
2. The dominance relationship is partial order as there are security labels do not always interact.
3. Dominance is not total order as there are circumstances in which priority/sensitivity may change.
4.  The hierarchical component of one subjectis greater than or equal to that of another and its need to do categories is a superset of the other.
5. You can only read objects at your level or below.
6. It is only if as there are some exceptions where you may still deny access (a spy).

Lecture 9:
1. This is because there is always a security risk involved and one hurdle may not be enough to deter malicious users.
2. This is to maintain integrity of the objects.
3. Once you overwrite something in computers it is gone.
4. The *-property states that information can only flow up a system.
5. The subject must have the same label as the object and it must be have the exact same need-to-know categories.
6. Change the general's clearance level or change accounts.
7. This is definitely a problem which  a policy for integrity should be implemented.

Lecture 10:
1. Changing a subject's level arbitraily violates weak tranquility as someone with low clearance can view the most confidential documents and then go down and leak the data.
2. This is too strict as clearance can change.
3. Lowering the level of an object is dangerous because those not allowed to view the object originally may not see everything arbitrarily.
4. In order to downgrade an object the data must not compromise the tranquility property.

Lecture 11:
1. The subjects and objects would all be the same level as they have the same access.
2. This is because you could have thousands of options for any particular system and many would not even be interrelated.

Lecture 12: 
1. L(A) ---> L(A) ---> H(A) ---> H(A)
2. The LUB/GLB are found by analyzing the paths in the label lattice.
3.  This upward flow is the matapolicy for BLP as data can only flow up a system.

Lecture 13: 
1. Information can flow from low to high and not from high to low.
2. The read and write satisfy BLP as you can only read if the subject dominates the object and you can only write if the level of the subject is dominated by the level of the object.
3. Create satisfies BLP as a new object will only be created if it doesn't exist. Destory works similarily as it will destory an object only if the subject has write access and the object exists.
4. The low subject has to do the same thing for both cases.
5. This is because we don't want leaked data.
6. They are the same, only the access is changed.
7. This is because it doesn't know what case will be in effect.
8. SH does things differently depending on whether or not its trying to send information.
9. If data is distributed to a SL then this is in violation of no write down.

Lecture 14: 
1. This is because both parties have access to everything before them.
2. The example is not a covert channel as in both cases a 0 will be returned as SL doesn't have access.
3. The bit of information is the return value of access.
4. The bit of information is the amount of time the CPU is held by the high priority process.
5. The bit is dependent on where the read head of the disk is relative to points A and B.
6. The bit resides in the value of l which is dependent on the value of h.
7. Many processes are passed on and off by the CPU various amount of times.
8. You must have some sort of device to read power fluctuations.
9. Anything that processes data with voltages (any computer).

Lecture 1 5:
1. Covert channels are dangerous because they are hard to detect and thus any amount of data can be leaked.
2. This would essentially lock the system up with so many stipulations.
3. Could block all data transactions until the parties involved are identified.
4. When information can be transferred to a lower level.
5. This can be utilized to bypass the BLP policy.

Lecture 16:
1. The create operation doesn't have an R as it is changing data.
2. An R and M in the same row indicates a potential channel as both parties have access to the same attribute so they could potentially synchronize their activities.
3. This doesn't indicate a potential threat as the 
4. If they wanted to make the most secure system as possible they would need to do this.