Questions Week 3

Even Hvatum
UT EID: eah2322
CS Login: ehvatum
Email: ehvatum@utexas.edu

Lecture 34

1. C is the capacity of the channel in bits/sec and h is the average symbol size in bits. Therefore, it is impossible to transmit at a symbol rate faster than the capacity of the channel divided by the size of a symbol as the channel capacity cannot grow and the average symbol size will not change in real time.

2. By making the message smaller relative to the entire signal size it is more likely that the entirety of the original message survives the noise in the system. In other words, making a breakup or contamination of the signal less likely to actually pollute the important message increases the reliability of communicating it.

Lecture 35

1. According to the zero-order model the entropy of the language is h = -(log 1/10) for the sequence of digits 0-9.

2. In a natural language not all symbols have the same probability, while some are even influenced by the symbol that comes before them meaning that the probabilities and resultantly the entropy is much more difficult to compute.

3. Zero-order implies that all symbols are equally likely, first-order takes into account the independent probabilities of every symbol, second-order also takes into account digrams or combinations of two symbols that often follow each other, third-order takes into account trigrams which are the same as digrams but with three symbols, and so on.

Lecture 36

1. If there is no prior knowledge about the possible outcomes other than what they are, then it is impossible to calculate their probabilities. Or even worse, if the receiver and sender do not know what messages they will have to communicate then finding the probabilities of the unknown messages is impossible.

2. The more the observer already knows, the less is required to help that observer get rid of any uncertainty. Therefore, the more the observer knows the smaller the message can be to resolve that uncertainty or the observer needs to decode a smaller amount to resolve it.

3. Redundancy is a measure of how far away the average message size is from achieving entropy. If the message size matches the entropy then there is no redundancy.

Lecture 37

1. Captain Kidd's message contains some symbols that are repeated many times, making them likely to correspond to vowels while the less frequent symbols may correspond to consonants. The text is likely to reference locations or instructions for finding treasure, which allows you to look for certain likely words to appear in that text. Finally, it looks like the encryption is simply replacing one letter with a symbol, possibly with a shift so it should be possible to try replacing each symbol by a letter to decrypt.

2. A key is necessary when one symbol is replaced by another in some random order, but if the letters are replaced by numbers in the same order as the alphabet for example, no key is necessary to decrypt. Basically, if there exists an algorithm that both sender and receiver know then there doesn't need to exist a key but only the knowledge of how to decrypt the message.

3. Encryption may shift the content, pad the content with unnecessary symbols, or shrink the content into only the important symbols required to eliminate uncertainty. Therefore, sometimes syntax may be lost even as meaning is preserved.

4. With high redundancy, an attacker can more easily distinguish between messages especially as they are filled with some useless symbols which may appear often and can therefore be eliminated or linked to their underlying meaning. It gives an attacker more leverage to decode the message than a very short message with fewer repeated symbols.

Lecture 38

1. The simplest for would simply be P, the original plain text without any decryption.

2. Assuming that encrypting an encrytion actually makes a change and doesn't just return the first encryption, the simplest form would be E(P, Ke)

3. Patterns indicate repeating strings of symbols which can be used to decrypt the entire pattern. In English, patterns may be used to find occurrences of the words "the" and "a."

4. Just as in the answer above, properties of a language such as the most common letters or strings of letters that comprise words can help an analyst pinpoint these occurrences and decode them, giving them a few known symbols which may use to decode the rest of the message.

Lecture 39

1. If the analyst isn't able to recognize that the cipher has been broken, their success means nothing to them. Also, if the cipher changes often enough, then by the time it is broken it may be useless to the analyst.

2. The 2 refers to the possibility of a bit being 0 or 1 with n - 1 being the amount of possible combinations of bits given the length of the encryption key, n. That is how many brute force attempts it takes to try every possible combination of the key.

3. Substitution changes one symbol for another to remove the meaning from the plain text while transposition makes it much harder to crack the encryption since you can no longer rely on the location of each symbol in the text to give you any information.

4. Confusion is the result of substitution, basically making a plain text have no meaning to a reader. Diffusion is the result of transposition, moving the important information around to make decryption harder.

5. Both are important for encryption. I would say they are about equal by themselves but much more potent in combination.

Lecture 40

1. A monoalphabetic cipher always substitutes one symbol for another no matter where in the text these symbols occur. A polyalphabetic cipher will make different substitutions depending on where in the text the symbol is found, increasing decryption difficulty.

2. The key for a simple cipher could possibly simply be a different alphabet in the key order, or a set of symbol pairs.

3. K! represents the total possible permutations of the alphabet or symbol set. If using a simple cipher, K! will indicate the ceiling on the number of possible keys to the encryption.

4. The key in the Caesar Cipher would either be an alphabet shifted by 2 symbols or the knowledge that the letters must be shifted by two and wrap around at the end of the alphabet.

5. The keyspace could contain all integers, although a very high value is unlikely but not impossible given the use of computers these days. Basically, any whole number would do, with sign indicating which direction to shift.

6. I would say that the algorithm is stronger than a simple cipher, but still falls short since whole words are shifted so any patterns that are found will still yield whole words at a time.

7. The decryption algorithm is to look at the column or row that contains the key letter and then along that column or row until the encrypted symbol is found and see what message letter this corresponds to. Basically, as long as two symbols are known the third can be found by looking for the intersection.

Lecture 41

1. There are three symbols with 26 possible letters for each of them, meaning that there are 26^3 possibilities when you approach it in a naive way.

2. Knowing that it's a simple substitution cipher means that the two y's must be the same letter and the x and y must be different letters. Thus there are 26 possibilities for one of them and 25 for the other when the first is already taken. 26 x 25 possibilities is 1/27 of the original possibilities.

3. No, a perfect cipher is not possible as knowing the exact encryption algortihm and the resulting ciphertext is bound to give some information about the plain text. It is impossible to say that this does not give an attacker the ability to work backwards toward the plain text.

Lecture 42

1. The key could literally be any combination of a text the same length as the cipher with no patterns to be found in the text itself. In this case the analyst knows the cipher and the algorithm used, but is none the wiser with no reduction in the search space so the cipher is technically perfect.

2. If the key in a pad is not random then it reduces the possible search space and diminished the effectiveness of the cipher. It also will not be perfect anymore as knowing that the key isn't random gives the attacker some information that reduces the search space.

3. Since the key will always be random and change for each cipher, the sender and receiver need a way to securely share this key. The problem is that if they had a way to completely securely share the key then they wouldn't need the key. On the other hand, if they agreed on the key at an earlier time then it would not be random.

Lecture 43

1. Encryption by transposition preserves the symbol frequencies of the original language and plain text, thus making those easier to pinpoint and target for an analyst.

Lecture 44

1. The one-time pad is a symmetric algorithm since the same key is used to encrypt and decrypt the text.

2. Key distribution deals with getting the keys to all the authorized parties who need them to encrypt and decrypt messages. Key management deals with keeping these keys secure from attackers but available for these authorized parties.

3. If S used an asymmetric key then getting a hold of Ks is not enough to decrypt the messages that S sends. One would have to get a hold of Ks-1, or the private decryption key, to decrypt these messages.

4. It depends on the context of use. A symmetric key is cheaper to generate but requires the key to be communicated securely for both sender and receiver to be able to encrypt and decrypt messages, while a public key doesn't need to be distributed.

Lecture 45

1. Its high diffusion and immunity to tampering make it very difficult for an attacker to glean information from the decryption process, protecting the integrity of the key.

2. Being able to predict and see meaningful changes to the plain text from changes to the cipher text gives an analyst a lot of information about the decryption process and key used in that decryption. Being non-malleable is important because changes to the cipher text will give no useful feedback to the attacker.

3. Homomorphic encryption allows for operations to be applied to the cipher text without destroying the meaning of the message. These operations applied to the cipher text exactly match the result of applying them to the plain text. It can be used to compute data without exposing the underlying data. It is by its nature malleable.

Lecture 46

1. subBytes uses confusion by taking each byte and using its value as a lookup index in a 256 element table to replace the value by the one found in the lookup table.

2. shiftRows uses diffusion by starting at Row 0 and shifting each successive row left by as many bytes as the value of the row number.

3. Decryption requires inverting the mixColumns step by multiplying each column by a fixed array. In other words, the steps are slower going backwards than they are going forwards.

4. AES takes input of fixed size blocks and then puts them through multiple rounds to change the state of the block in repetitive operations using keys.

5. Increasing the number of rounds allows for more keys to be used to change the state of the information even further and apply a higher degree of difficulty in decrypting.

Lecture 47

1. In ECB mode, identical blocks before the encryption will look identical after the encryption. This allows for pattern recognition as seen in the English language.

2. By randomizing the blocks before encryption, identical blocks will not look identical after encrypting them.

3. An attacker who is able to observe changes may see when the blocks first changed. Additionally, finding two identical blocks post-encryption yields information about these two blocks in plain text.

4. The key stream generation acts like a one-time pad where the same stream is used for encryption and decryption, but with no meaning to any blocks that may end up being identical, thus removing any meaningful patterns from the cipher.

Lecture 48

1. For a public key system to maintain secrecy, the private or secret key must be kept secret as it is the only key that can be used to decrypt the information again.

2. A one way function is one which is extremely easy and straightforward to apply in one direction, but unknown in the other direction without knowing the additional information contained in the secret key.

3. There is no need to communicate the key used to encrypt the message to the receiver for him to successfully decrypt the message. This means that there is no need for key distribution.

4. According to RSA rules, the simplification is {P}k-1

5. A symmetric algorithm is much more efficient than an asymmetric algorithm, but requires key distribution.

Lecture 49

1. Yes, even if one switched the public and private keys in an RSA encryption, the algorithm would still work since {{P}d}e = P = {{P}e}d

2. It is easy to multiply prime numbers to get some value, but difficult to factor that large number back into the original prime numbers without knowing some information about the original numbers.

3. Yes, RSA is breakable but it is built on the concept that the job will be much harder and time consuming for the attacker than for the legitimate receiver who knows something about the original numbers.

4. The interceptor does not have access to the private key so they are unable to decrypt the message.

5. The message and encryption provide privacy but no proof of authentication. Anyone could use the public key to encrypt and send a message.

6. B's private key was used to decrypt the message so only B could have sent it since it required the private key to encrypt.

7. Anyone with the public key is also able to decrypt the message so B is not guaranteed that only A can read it.

8. The only way to ensure both privacy and authentication in a message is to have two sets of public keys and private keys and use one for privacy and the other for authenticity.

Lecture 50

1. For a hash to be useful in protecting the integrity of information, it must be quick enough to compute to make it worthwhile using for large pieces of data without noticeably slowing down the functionality of the system.

2. Weak collision resistance means that given a message m1, it is hard to find a message m2 such that these messages are not equal but their hashes are equal. Strong collision resistance means that it is hard to find any two messages such that their hashes are equal.

3. Being pre-image resistant means that given the hash it is difficult to find any message that produces this hash. Second pre-image resistance means that given a message m1 it is hard to find a second message m2 such that the two are not equal but their hashes are. This is the same as weak collision resistance.

4. There are over 10^38 different possibilities, but with approximately 10^19 attempts necessary to generate a collision.

5. There are about 10^77 possibilities, with 10^38 attempts necessary to generate a collision. As we can see this is a drastic improvement over the 128 bit key.

6. It is extremely difficult to go backwards and reproduce the original message given the hash. That makes them ideal for comparison to ensure integrity was not compromised but not for encryption.

7. The quality that ensures this is that it is difficult to modify a given text without changing its hash. This means that as long as the hash stays the same, the message has not been tampered with.

8. B would encrypt the message using its key while A should decrypt it using the decryption key to ensure confidentiality. The hash of the message should also be transmitted and computed before encrypting and after decrypting to compare. If the hashes match then integrity was preserved.

Lecture 51

1. No, S should not have access to R's private key so it should not be able to decrypt the message twice with both private keys. Furthermore, this message is easily decryptable by someone with both public keys so confidentiality is not ensured.

2. Yes, reversing the order still provides the authentication of S's private key and ensures confidentiality of the message since only R can decrypt it.

3. No, when encrypting with both public keys, neither party can decrypt the message with only their own private key. Therefore the message encryptions are not equivalent.

4. Key exchane requires confidentiality to ensure that only the relevant parties have access to the key and authentication to ensure that the sent key was actually sent by the authorized and expected party.

Lecture 52

1. Nothing, the eavesdropper does not know the secret number even after knowing p, g, and intercepting the messages. The eavesdropper needs to know the secret numbers of each participant.

2. Assuming the eavesdropper also knows p and g, he can decrypt the secret number if he intercepts Bob's message to Alice.

3. Assuming the eavesdropper also knows p and g, he can decrypt the secret number if he intercepts Alice's message to Bob.