CS361 Questions Week 5
http://www.cs.utexas.edu/~byoung/cs361/questions-week5.pdf

Name: Perry Feng
EID: pf4736
CS Login: maxilius
Email: perry_feng@hotmail.com

Lecture 66
1. What is PGP?
PGP is a program called Pretty Good Privacy that uses the best available cryptographic algorithms as building blocks.

2. What motivated Phil Zimmerman to develop it?
Zimmermann had the goal of providing strong encryption to everyone in the form of an email encryption system that is extremely strong, using state of the art cryptographic algorithms and easy to use and accessible to all.

3. Does PGP provide effective security?
Yes. PGP uses the best available cryptographic algorithms as building blocks integrated into a general-purpose algorithm that is processor-independent and easy to use.

4. If PGP is freeware, why would anyone bother to purchase support?
Because they want companies they call on to get maintenance and freeware doesn't provide that.

Lecture 67
1. Explain the PGP authentication protocol.
Sender creates a message M. Sender generates a hash of M. Sender signs the hash using his private key and prepends the result to the message. Receiver uses the sender's public key to verify the signature and recover the hash code. Receiver generates a new hash code for M and compares it with the decrypted hash code.

2. Explain the PGP confidentiality protocol.
Sender generates a message M and a random session key K. M is encrypted using key K. K is encrypted using the recipient's public key, and prepended to the message. Receiver uses his private key to recover the session key. The session key is used to decrypt the message.

3. How do you get both authentication and confidentiality?
Apply the authentication step to the original message. Apply the confidentiality step to the resulting message.

Lecture 68
1. Besides authentication and confidentiality, what other "services" does PGP provide?
It also provides compression, email compatibility, and segmentation.

2. Why is compression needed?
Because we're sending information over the internet and we want to make the transfer of data as smooth as possible with the fewest amounts of bits while preserving the context of the original message.

3. Why sign a message and then compress, rather than the other way around?
You don't want the signature to depend on the compression algorithm. You want to sign the original message, then compress then do the encryption last. 

4. Explain radix-64 conversion and why it's needed?
It converts a groups of three octets (24 bits, 3 bytes) and turns it into four ASCII characters. It's needed because many email systems would choke on certain bit strings they'd interpret as control commands however every mailer in the world can handle ASCII.  

5. Why is PGP segmentation needed?
PGP segmentation is needed in order to break down longer messages and reassembles that on the receiving end so no mailer along the way will complain that the message is too long. 

Lecture 69
1. What are the four kinds of keys used by PGP?
Session keys: used once and generated for each new message
Public keys: used in asymmetric encryption
Private keys: also used in asymmetric encryption
Passphrase-based keys: used to protect private keys

2. What special properties are needed of session keys?
They are used for symmetric encryption and are just randomly generated (high entropy) bit strings of the appropriate length that depends on the encryption algorithm. 

3. How are session keys generated?
The encryption algorithm E is used to generate a new n-bit key from a previous session key and two n/2-bit blocks generated based on user keystrokes, including keystroke timing. The two blocks are encrypted using E and the previous key, and combined to form the new key.

4. Assuming RSA is used for PGP asymmetric encryption, how are the keys generated?
For new RSA keys, an odd number n of sufficient size (usually > 200 bits) is generated and tested for primality. If it is not prime, then repeat with another randomly generated number until a prime is found. Primes appear in the neighborhood of n about every ln(n) = lge(n) numbers. Since we can exclude even numbers, to find a prime of around 200 bits. it takes about ln(2^200)/2 = 70 tries. This is an expensive operation, but performed relatively infrequently. 

5. How are the private keys protected? Why is this necessary?
The private key is stored encrypted with a user-supplied passphrase. The user selects a passphrase for encrypting private keys. When a new public/private key pair is generated, the system asks for the passphrase. Using SHA-1, a 160 bit hash code is generated from the passphrase, which is discarded. The private key is encrypted using CAST-128 with 128 bits of the hash code as key. The key is then dicscarded.

Lecture 70
1. If a user has multiple private/public key pairs, how does he know which was used when he receives an encrypted message?
PGP sends along the 64 least significant digits of the public key letting the receiver know that the public key it used has the same 64 least significant digits as this so the receiver can just do a search for the right public key which is in the private key ring so they can grab the private key to unlock the message.

2. What's on a user's private key ring?
Timestap: when the key pair was generated.
Key ID: 64 least significant digits of the public key.
Public key: the public portion of the key.
Private key: the private portion, encrypted using a passphrase.
User ID: usually the user's email address. May be different for different key pairs.

3. What's on a user's public key ring?
Timestamp: when the entry was generated
Key ID: 64 least significant digits of this entry
Public key: the public key for the entry.
User ID: Identifier for the owner of this key. Multiple IDs may be associated with a single public key.

4. What are the steps in retrieving a private key from the key ring?
Whenever PGP must use a private key, it must decrypt it. For example, suppose R receives a message encrypted with Kr. PGP retrieves receiver's encrypted private key from the private-key ring, using the Key ID field in the session key component of the message as an index. PGP prompts the user for the passphrase to recover the unencrypted private key. PGP recovers the session key and decrypts the message.

5. What is the key legitimacy field for?
Associated with each public key in the user's public key ring is a key legitimacy field that indicates the extent to which PGP trusts that this is a valid public key for this user. Legitimacy is determined from certificates and chains of certificates, the user's assessment of the trust to be assigned to the key, and various heuristics for computing trust.

6. How is a key revoked? 
The owner issues a signed key revocation certificate. Recipients are expected to update their public-key rings. Keys can be revoked but you can't force anyoen to not send you messages encrypted with that, though you can refuse to accept them.

Lecture 71
1. Explain the difference between the consumer and producer problems. Which is more prevalent?
The consumer problem, also called "main-in-the-middle" attack, the attacker gets logically between the client and service and somehow disrupts the communication, blocking the clients from sending requests to the server. The producer problem, which is the more prevalent one, is wher ethe attacker produces, offers or requests so many services that the server is overwhelmed.

2. Explain syn flooding.
A SYN Flooding attack happens when an attacker forges the return address on a number of SYN packets. Since there is a waiting time for the ACKS, the server fills its table with these half-open connections. All legitimate accessea re denied until the connections time-out.

3. Why are the first three solutions to syn flooding not ideal?
a. Increasing the sever's queue size is not that good. Even though you can handle more requests, the attacker can just send more requests and you could consume more resources.
b. Shorten the time-out period is not good because in itself is a Denial of service attacker because slower clients may time out before they even get to the resource.
c. Filter suspicious packets. This is hard to do because it's hard to tell whether a packet is really legitimate or not. Just looking at the address is not enough information so if you're too aggressive, that in itself is DoS attack b/c you might throw away legitimate packets. 

Lecture 72
1. Why does packet filtering work very well to prevent attacks?
Because if you know which packets are malicious and which are not, you can discard the bad ones and only let the legitimate packets in, therefore not wasting and consuming resources by not having the malicious packets take up resources and space.

2. What are the differences between intrusion detection and intrusion prevention systems?
An intrusion detection system (IDS) can analyze traffic patterns and react to anomalous patterns. However, often there is nothing apparently wrong but the volume of requests. An IDS reacts after the attack has begun. 
An intrusion prevention system (IPS) attempts to prevent intrusions by more aggressively blocking attempted attacks. This assumes that the attacking traffic can be identified. IDS/IPS are useful for confidentiality and integrity attacks, not just DoS attacks.

3. Explain the four different solutions mentioned to DDoS attacks.
a. Over-provisioning the network - have too many servers to be overwhelmed (expensive and unworkable).
b. Filtering attack packets - somehow distinguish the attack packets from regular packets (may not be possible or too hard).
c. slow down processing - disadvantages all requestors, but perhaps disproportionately disadvantages attackers.
d. "Speak-up" solution - requests additional traffic from all requestors. This assumes that the attacker's bots are already maxed out so therefore cannot send any additional packets. So this solution raises the proportion of valid to invalid requests. 

Lecture 73
1. Explain false positives and false negatives. Which is worse?
A false positive is where a harmless behavior is mis-classified as an attack.
A false negative is wher ea genuine attack is not detected. 
It depends on what you are protecting and what you need to control and how sensitive you are to an infraction. 

2. Explain what "accurate" and "precise" mean in the IDS context.
Accurate means that the intrusion detection system detects all genuine attacks. 
You also want it precise, which means that it never reports legitimate behavior as an attack. 

3. Explain the statement: "It's easy to build an IDS that is either accurate or precise"?
It is relatively easier to either build one that reports everything as an attack, or nothing as an attack, but to have one that does both is difficult. 

4. What is the base rate fallacy? Why is it relevant to an IDS?
This is where if the attack rate is rare, then without a high degree of accuracy for the system to be useful otherwise the IDS just becomes useless.

Suppose that only 1% of traffic are actually attacks and the detection accuracy of your IDS is 90%. What does that mean? It means that the IDS classifies an attack as an attack with probability 90%. The IDS classifies a valid connection as attack with probability 10%. However, it's an illusion. 90% sounds good but there is approximately 92% chance that a raised alarm is false.

Lecture 74
1. What did Code Red version 1 attempt to do?
If the date is between 1st and 19th of the month, it generated a random list of IP addresses and attempted to infect those machines. On 20th and 28th of the month, it would launch a DoS flooding attack on www1.whitehouse.gov. The worm also defaces some webpages with the words "Hacked by Chinese".

2. Why was Code Red version 1 ineffective?
The worm uses a static seed in its random number generator and thus generates identical lists of IP addresses on each infected machine. Each infected machine probed the same list of machines, so the worm spread slowly. The IP address for www1.whitehouse.gov was changed so the DoS attack failed. 

3. What does it mean to say that a worm is "memory resident"? What are the implications.
It is kept in the volatile part of the memory so you can simply do a reboot and the worm would disappear. However since the infected machine was already on the list of attacks of CodeRed in this particular example, the likelihood of you being infected again was high.

4. Why was Code Red version 2 much more effective than version 1?
Version 2 was more effective because it used a random seed rather than a static seed. This allowed it to attack a wider range of machines. It infected 359,000 machines in just fourteen hours. It had a much greater impact on global infrastructure due to the sheer volume of hosts infected and probes sent to infect new hosts. Wrecked havoc on some additional devices with web interfaces, routers, switches, DSL modems, and printers. They either crashed or rebooted when an infected machine attempted to send the ma copy of the worm.

Lecture 75
1. How was Code Red II related to Code Red (version 1 and 2)?
There wasn't much direct link between those two except the fact that the writer of Code Red II knew about Code Red obviously because he named Code Red was in the name of this virus.

2. Why do you suppose Code Red II incorporated its elaborate propogation scheme?
It did so to take advantage of the fact that machines on the same network or subnet are likely to be running similar software and in doing so they are able to infect more and more computers if all the computers in the subnet are running similar software that they can infect. 

3. What did Code Red II attempt to do?
When the worm infects a new host, it first determines if the system has already been infected. If not, the worm initiates its propagation mechanism, sets up a "backdoor" into the infected machine, becomes dormant for a day, and then reboots the machine. It then begins a process of propogating itself. It also tried to infect computers instead of other stuff like printers so it stayed away from certain IP addresses.

4. Comment on the implications of a large population of unpatched machines.
It's just saying that there will always be a large number of machines that remains to be vulnerable to the same or similar attack. In the study, United Kingdom and United States were at the top with 66 and 60% patched respectively while for example in China only 13% were patched.

5. Comment on the report from Verizon cited on slide 6. What are the lessons of their study?
It's just saying that 9 out of 10 breaches, a patch was avilable at least 6 months before the attack. It shows that we're pretty lousy with patching our machines and that we should patch it as soon as a patch comes out because not doing so makes the internet much more vulnerable as we have all these machines out there susceptible to attack. 

Lecture 76
1. Why is a certification regime for secure products necessary and useful?
Because most customers don't have the expertise to perform the steps that include assessing needs to determine requirements, identifying the products that will meet those requirements, and purchasing the product and deploying it. The solution is providing a standardized process of independent evaluation by expert team sto provide a certified level of confidence for security products.

2. Explain the components of an evaluation standard.
You want a set of requirements that define security functionality. 
You also want a set of assurance requirements needed for establishing the functional requirements.
You also want a methodology for determining that the functional requirements are met.
Lastly, you want a measure of the evaluation result indicating the trustworthiness of the evaluated system. 

3. Why would crypto devices have a separate evaluation mechanism?
The government, because cryptography is a sensitive area and there aren't as many experts as in the other areas of security, has some specialized documents which describe the evaluation of cryptographic modules.

4. Explain the four levels of certification for crypto devices.
Level 1: basic security, at least one approved algorithm or function.
Leve 2: improved physical security, tamper-evident packaging (if someone has tried to break into your cryptobox, you can see that that has happened).
Level 3: strong tamper-resistant and countermeasures.
Level 4: complete envelope of protection including immediate zeroing of keys upon tampering like in a poxy ball so when you cut it in it is obvious that that has happened and will zero out the keys. 


Lecture 77
1. What is the Common Criteria?
It is a set of documents and methology for applying the criteria and also each country can tweak it themselves a little bit which are called Evaluation Scheme or National Scheme.

2. What's "common" about it?
Because the point is if something is evaluated in the US, you can go to UK and it will be accepted there as well because the documents/methodology is shared/common among those countries. 

3. Why would there be any need for "national Schemes"?
Each country said that they will tweak it a bit so they have National Scheme which are country specific. 

4. Explain the difference between a protection profile and a security target.
Security target is a set of security requirements that is used as the basis of evaluation for a class of systems. While Protection Profle is a set of implementation-independent security requirements for a category of products or systems. Like the firewall example given in the video lecture.

Lecture 78
1. Explain the overall goal of the protection profile as exemplified by the WBIS example.
The overall goal is to record that a waste bin was cleared in safe manner by trusted individuals that are not affected by outside threats like an attacker smashing the tag, corrupt the data read by the truck etc. Doing so we want to detect invalid ID tags. We also want to detect invalid bin-cleared messages. We also want certain fault tolerance in the system.

2. What is the purpose of the various parts of the protection profile(as exemplified in the WBHIS example)?
Security Requirements are needed are data authentication, internal transfer integrity protection, and stored data integrity. Data authentication isn't saying how that it should be implemented but in general what things should be met. This tells anyone who's going to implement this system what are legitimate ways of accomplishing it like crypticsums or message digest. 

3. What is the purpose of the matrix on slide 7?
It just shows that there is a mapping from threats/assumptions to security objectives/requirements and if each row has at least one x that it's good to go.

Lecture 79
1. Explain the overall goal of the security target evaluation as exemplified by the Sun Identity Manager example.
The goal is to safely, efficiently, and successfully manage user access privileges stored in dirctory services. Assumptiosn are no untrusted users on the system. The OS has reliable time stamps. Threats it notes are that users may have selected guessable passwords, authorized users perform bad actions, administrators don't manage security well, unauthorized user gains access, attack attempts go undetected, and a user leaves workstation without logging out.

2. How do you think that a security target evaluation differs from a protection profile evaluation?
A security target evaluation is for a specific product or family of products submitted for evaluation. It has specific mechanism for that product that deals with the overall security goal. Whereas protection profile is more abstract. It describes in general what a specific type of system should have but it doesn't specifically state the mechanism the system should implement. Imagine a firewall. The Protection profile would state the things that a firewall suppose to have. The security target evaluation would be someone's firewall product that has specific mechanisms in place to satisfies those in the Protection profile for firewall let's say.

Lecture 80
1. What are the EALs and what are they used for?
EAL stands for evaluation assurance level and what it is specifies how rigorously they have conducted their evaluation of that product or system. Like how much evidence that they want to put forward that their evaluation is going to succeed.

2. Who performs the Common Criteria evaluations? Evaluations are performed for a fee by commercial laboratories that are certified by NIST(National Institute of Standards and Technology). Independent labs test up to EAL4. For above that the tests are done by the NSA.

3. Speculate why the higher EALs are not necessarily mutually regonized by various countries.
The process to test products above EAL5 is highly complex. It must be designed using formal (mathematical) methods. It can't reverse engineer the model from the code and components should be kept small and independent. Also extensive documentation is required. Since there's so much step involved, it's just too complex to do it and pass around, that's why the NSA has a small high specialized groups that deals with this in their own department.

4. Can vendors certify their own products? Why or why not? Product vendors cannot self-certify. Evaluation tests must be performed by an independent organization accredited to perform CC testing. This is to maintain the integrity of the certificate because vendors can easily forge their own evaluation and that would be bad.

5. If you're performing a formal evaluation, why is it probably bad to reverse engineer the model from the code?
Because then it wouldn't be considered a formal proof if you can just grab the code and claim that is true. There must be rigorous mathematical proofs of each part of the product itself without reverse engineer which would defeat the purpose of formal evaluation proof in the first place.

