Name: Melanie O'Neal
EID: mfo264
CS Login: onealm
Email: melanie_oneal@yahoo.com

Lecture 53:     
	1. It is important so that the signature can't be detached. If it is 
	detatched, it could be used maliciously on another message (Identity theft, 
	etc).     
	2. It's cheaper to send and ensures integrity.   
	3. R is assured that the message is authentic and unforged.

Lecture 54:
	1. Certificate authorities ensure or vouch that a binding between a 
	certificate, and a public key and user's identity are accurate. In other 
	words, they make sure that the entitiy you're interacting with is the one
	that you wanted to interact with.
	2. X signs it to vouch for the binding.
	3. Having a hash helps ensure that Y and Ky were not altered or corrupted.
	4. Z couldn't trust the certificate either.

Lecture 55:
	1. The root of a (good) chain of trust has an unimpeachable authority.
	2. There need to be certain times to ensure validity. Limits must be 
	imposed so that entities that no longer exist may be valid and so that
	assurances can be made about how fresh validity is.
	3. It would mean that the integrity was compromised and that the 
	certificate would not be valid.

Lecture 56:
	1. Diffie-Hellman and other key exchanges.
	2. You could lose confidentiality.
	3. They must commute so that the inner encryption may be stripped.
	4. An attacker can XOR all three messages together to get M.
	5. An attacker can use M as extracted in number 4, and XOR that with 
	(M + Ka) to get Ka.
	6. An attacker can XOR ((M + Ka) + Kb) with (M + Ka) and then XOR with M
	as found in number 4.
	7. Because they are very subtle.

Lecture 57:
	1. Protocols are important for the internet because almost everything that 
	happens on the Internet happens via protocol.
	2. Cryptographic protocols help maintain Internet security.
	3. The assumptions are that the public keys of A and B belong to the 
	correct parties.
	4. The goals of the protocol are to share a secret key and ensure that 
	no one else besides A and B view or use it.
	5. No. The protocol does not ensure confidentiality. An attacker can get to
	the key.
	6. It's flawed because someone intercepting the first transmission can 
	trick B into removing their key by initiaing a new run of the protocol.

Lecture 58:
	1. We would want to know if there are more chances for some steps to be 
	used to cancel out others. Extra steps mean extra vulnerabilities.
	2. Items that could be sent in the clear but are encrypted give attackers
	more to work with and find a way to defeat that encryption.

Lecture 59:
	1. It is difficult to know what an attacker may do with any amount of
	information gained. The questions asked on slide 2 give some idea of what
	questions someone analyzing a protocol will want answered, but they don't
	present every possibility because nobody knows every possibility.
	2. Replay attacks could be used to trick people into sending secret 
	information by sending seemingly valid messages (that used to be valid).
	3. Yes. Some attacks may not be to gain information, but to plant 
	information or give malicious orders/instrucitons, or disrupt a protcol.
	4. The attacker must interject messages that make sense to the flow of
	information. In other words, messages must be able to be identified and
	responded to. 
	5. It is important that protocols are asynchronous so that nobody but the
	initiator knows that protocol is running until they receive a message.

Lecture 60:
	1. No, it wouldn't. Nonces are necessary to ensure that the messages are
	fresh.
	2.
	  Step 1: The sender is trying to request a secret key for AB. The receiver
	  is entitled to believe that A needs a secure key.
	  Step 2: The sender is giving A a key and a secure message to send to B using
	  B and S's key. The receiver is entitled to believe that the message it will
	  give to B is able to be decrypted by them.
	  Step 3: The sender is giving B a key to share. The receiver is entitled to 
	  believe that the key is secret.
	  Step 4: The sender is giving A a nonce using the key to make sure A is the
	  appropriate receiver. The receiver is entitled to believe B actually sent 
	  it.
	  Step 5: The sender is trying to say that they got the message and could read		
	  it. The receiver is entitled to believe A could decrypt the message.

Lecture 61:
	1. An attacker could persuade someone to communicate to the wrong party, then
	pass on the traffic to the original target of communication and convince them
	that the attacker is the legitimate party.
	2. They key shouldn't get broken because it should be strong, but you never
	know.
	3. I might add a rule to continue using nonces throughout.

Lecture 62:
	1. Otway-Rees seems to guarantee session identifiers will ensure that S sent
	the keys.
	2. Needham-Schoreder guarantees that A and B get the same key.
	3. You could use one of the keys twice in a row. 

Lecture 63:
	1. Protocols are very hard to get correct and there have been flaws found many
	years after the protocol was made.
	2. A belief logic is a way to reason about beliefs using logical operators and
	rules of inference.
	3. Beliefs come in when there are assumptions to be made.

Lecture 64:
	1. Modal logic is a logic with additional primatives and rules of inference
	to reason about a particular domain.
	2. A is using what it believes and sees to justify that B sent a particular
	message. A believes that it shares a secret key with B, and A sees a message
	encoded with that secret key, so it must have come from B.
	3. Nonce verification inference assumes that if a message is fresh, the entity
	that sent it believes it.
	4. The jurisdiction inference rule assumes that if a believes B can be trusted
	on X, and A believes that B believes X, then A should also believe X. Someone
	else can trust X, so A can too.
	5. Idealization is meant to omit parts of a message that are not related to 
	the beliefs of contributing parties.

Lecture 65:
	1. It can be forged.
	2. Because beliefs that happen later are assumed or believed to eventually
	happen.
	3. BAN proofs show what entities believe, so it's easier to see what 
	assumptions or inferences were made that were not apparent before.
