CS361 Question 1: fa3365; Freda, Anderson

NAME: Freda Anderson
EID: FA3365
CS LOGIN: Freda
EMAIL: Freda.ander@gmail.com

Lecture 1.
	1. What uses of the term "security" are relevant to your everyday life?
		a. I bank online - this means that my data needs to be secure. It must also be accurate and available- so I don't overdraw my account or someone doesn't charge me more than they should. Security is also relevant to me where I live. I live in the Domain Mall. To keep shoppers out of residential areas, residents have a key-fob. 
	2. What do these have in common?
		Both Villages at the Domain and my online banking website took preventative measures to ensure that unwanted and/or unauthorized personnel (aka 'threats') would not be able to access my personal 'assets'. 
	3. Have you been a victim of lax security?
		a. Yes, I applied for a job at Old Navy. The laptop which stored my application and its data was walked out of Old Navy Headquarters. 
	4. What is the likelihood that your laptop is infected?
		a. I own 2 laptops - one I am 100% there is a virus on; the other is less than 1 week old and I believe it is clean.
	5. What security measures do you employ on your laptop?
		a. I employ Norton Anti-Virus and Windows Firewall. 
	6. Do you think they are probably effective?
		a. Not really, but I think it is better than MacaFree or nothing. 
	7. Consider the quote from the FBI official on slide 10. Do you think it overstates the case? Justify your answer.
		a. I believe that any computer which has direct or indirect access to the Internet through some means has a potential cyber-risk. I believe that systems on closed networks have a very limited to no cyber-risk, but they still have a personnel risk. I am not sure what portion of government computers is closed and is open.  
	8. What is the importance in learning about computer security?
		a. In learning about computer security, we can enhance our own protection, contribute to our workplace's security, quality and safety, and improve overall security in cyberspace.

Lecture 2.
	1. Consider the five reasons given why security is hard. Can you think of other factors?
		a. We cannot control the user - a user might not protect themselves (sharing their password, not changing their password), giving information to people who might not be what they claim to be. 
	2. Is there a systematic way to enumerate the "bad things" that might happen to a program? Why or why not?
		a. No, the list of "bad things" that can happen is infinite.
	3. Explain the asymmetry between the defender and attacker in security.
		"The defender has to find and eliminate all exploitable vulnerabilities; the attacker only needs to find one!"
	4. Examine the quotes from Morris and Chang. Do you agree? Why or why not?
		Morris and Chang believe that the only way to protect your computer is to trade all functionality for security. While functionality and security are a general tradeoff, I think a lot of the risk can be managed by being vigilant, understanding the risks, and having a 'game plan' for the worst case scenario. 
	5. Explain the statement on slide 8 that a tradeoff is typically required.
		a. When I read "Typically, a tradeo? is necessary between security and other important project goals: functionality, usability, e?ciency, time-to-market, and simplicity," I thought about an operating system. The kernel does not check any kernel commands, but it checks all user commands. This allows the kernel to have high functionality in kernel mode and higher security in user mode. 

Lecture 3. 
	1. What is "risk"?
		a. Risk is the possibility that a particular threat will adversely impact an information system by exploiting a particular vulnerability.
	2. Do you agree that software security is about managing risk?
		a. Yes, I don't believe it is possible to account for everything, every single time. I also don't believe we can completely control the user - who can compromise a fairly secure system by doing dumb things like sharing a password.
	3. Name and explain a risk you accept, one you avoid, one you mitigate and one you transfer?
		a. Risk Acceptance - walking outside without sunscreen
		b. Risk Avoidance - taking the bus instead of driving
		c. Risk Mitigation - locking my apartment door when I leave
		d. Risk Transfer - having renter's insurance
	4. Evaluate annualized loss expectancy as a risk management tool.
		a. The annualized loss expectancy is a common risk assessment tool, which tables possible losses, their likelihood and potential cost for an average year. In other words, the ALE is the product of the annual rate of occurrence (ARO) times a single loss expectancy (SLE). 
		b. I don't think that the ALE paints the entire picture. The single most largest thing it is missing is the expected cost of a countermeasure. Is it worth it to employ extra security measures? It also doesn't take into account if a single cost could destroy the business (the expected cost could be brought down by a low probability). Additionally, this is just looking at a limited cost - if a company has a security problem - customers may go else where.
	5. List some factors relevant to rational risk assessment.
		- Assess assets
		- Assess threats
		- Assess vulnerabilities
		- Assess risks
		- Prioritize countermeasure options
		- Make risk management decisions
		

Lecture 4. 
	1. Explain the key distinction between the lists on slides 2 and 3.
		Slide three lists mechanisms (cryptography, digital signatures, access control, firewalls, passwords, certificates…)  for protecting one or more of the major aspects such as confidentiality, integrity or availability. 
	2. Consider your use of computing in your personal life. Which is most important: confidentiality, integrity, availability? Justify your answer. 
		a. Confidentiality - I do online banking and use online services such as CreditKarma. I don't want anyone else to have access to my personal data.
	3. What does it mean to "group and categorize data"?
		a. Not all data is as sensitive as other data. For instance, a company with an online retail website will want to share data like inventory availability, price, reviews by users. However, the company will want to hide and secure information like customers, their addresses and their payment information. 
	4. Why would authorizations change over time?
		a. There are several reasons authorizations could change over time. Here are two. One, a user manually changes the authorization requirements. For instance, a college student making his name and address public or not public within their school directory. Two, a change in circumstance could change authorization. For instance, a project ends and the team publishes previously hidden data. 
	5. Some of the availability questions seem to relate more to reliability than to security. How are the two related?
		a. Yes, reliability and security are related. Imagine Amazon has a problem with some bug slowing down its servers at times and other times the security system denies this attack. This system is not secure if it is not reliable in its security. 
	6. In what contexts would authentication and non-repudiation be considered important?
		a. Authentication - one context to make sure that you are actually on the site you think you are on (its not a phishing site).
		b. Non-Repudiation - one context is that some store website can't say you didn't pay them when you did.


Lecture 5.
	1. Describe a possible metapolicy for a cell phone network? A military database?
		a. Cell Phone Network - The main security goals of a cell phone network should be authentication and availability. Are the phone calls reaching the correct person? Can they reach the person timely or are they in a dead zone?
		b. Military Database - All aspects of security should be a goal on a military database. 
	2. Why do you need a policy if you have a metapolicy?
		a. The metapolicy is often too general to provide adequate guidance.
		b. The metapolicy may be subject to multiple interpretations.
		c. There may be multiple acceptable policies that accomplish the security goals.
		d. The policy provides specific and enforceable guidelines to the system user/developer.
	3. Give three possible rules within a policy concerning students’ academic records.
		a. University may post contact information under Directory unless faculty/staff/student explicitly denies University that right.
		b. University may not disclose grade information without permission from student.
		c. Students must provide EID and password to login into University public computers.
	4. Could stakeholders’ interest con?ict in a policy? Give an example.
		a. Yes, stakeholders may not want to report security breaks for the sake of reputation. Therefore these breaks are considered pranks or not enforced with jailtime or law. 
	5. For the example given involving student SSNs, state the likely metapolicy.
		a. The University of Texas at Austin seeks to provide confidentiality to students, faculty and staff. As such, all non-revelant personal information must be destroyed and all revelant personal information must be locked down.
	6. Explain the statement: ”If you don’t understand the metapolicy, it becomes dif?cult to justify and evaluate the policy.”
		a. The metapolicy is the goals of the system. If you are implementing security mechanisms wihtout understanding the goals - you may be doing unnessary, harmful or unproductive work to implement those goals. 


Lecture 6.
	1. Why is military security mainly about confidentiality? Are there also aspects of integrity and availability?
		a. The military don't want confidential knowledge leeking to enemies. 
		b. In the example given, the BLP system developed does not deploy any security measures for integrity or availability. 
	2. Describe the major threat in our MLS thought experiment.
		a. The major threat in our MLS thought experiment is that it is WW2 and Einsenhower doesn't want Nazis to know his plans. 
	3. Why do you think the proviso is there?
		a. Because thsi particular BLP system is not secure in any way for integrity and availability. For instance, in this system, an unclassified employ could go and overwrite the war plan.
	4. Explain the form of the labels we’re using.
		a. One label is made up of two parts
			i. Sensitivity level - Unclassified to Top Secret
			ii. Categories - a set of groups about the information within
		b. In order for a subject to read an item - he must have a sensitivity level equal to or higher than that of the object and he must have access to all categories listed. 
		c. In order for a subject to write to an item - he must have a sensitivity level equal to or lower than that of the object and he must have all categories listed
	5. Why do you suppose we’re not concerned with how the labels get there?
		a. It is outside the scope of the security system.
	6. Rank the facts listed on slide 6 by sensitivity.
		low to high sensitivity
		a. The cafeteria is serving chopped beef on toast today
		b. The base softball team has a game tomorrow at 3pm.
		c. Col. Smith didn't get a raise.
		d. Col. Jones just got a raise.
		e. The British have broken the German Enigma codes.
		h. The Normandy invasion is scheduled for June 6.
	7. Invent labels for documents containing each of those facts.
		Unclassified-{}
		a. The cafeteria is serving chopped beef on toast today
		Unclassified-{Events}
		b. The base softball team has a game tomorrow at 3pm.
		Calssified-{Salary}
		c. Col. Smith didn't get a raise.
		d. Col. Jones just got a raise.
		Top Secret-{Allies, Crypto}
		e. The British have broken the German Enigma codes.
		Top Secret-{War Plans}
		h. The Normandy invasion is scheduled for June 6.
	8. Justify the rules for “mixed” documents.
		a. If a document has information in two categories, it is listed with both categories.
		b. If a document contains mixed sensitivity levels, it is labelled with information's highest level. 
			i. If document had top secret and secret info and we marked it secret, anyone with secret access would be able to read that top secret info. As such, the system has introduced more vulnerabilities than it needed to.


Lecture 7
	1. Document labels are stamped on the outside. How are “labels” affixed to humans?
		a. Principle of Least Privilege. Any subject should have access to the minimum amount of information needed to do its job.
	2. Explain the difference in semantics of labels for documents and labels for humans.
		a. They largely look the same - however, in order for a human to access an object, the objects set of categories needs to be a subset of the human's set of "need-to-know" categories. In other words, labels on humans indicate classes of information that person is authorized to access and labels on objects indicate the classes of information a person needs in order to access.
	3. In the context of computers what do you think are the analogues of documents of humans?
		a. I think that information transfer can be done a lot quicker and more remotely on a computer.
	4. Explain why the Principle of Least Privilege makes sense.
		a. If you give someone access to more information than they need - you have more vulnerabilities in your system.
	5. For each of the pairs of labels on slide 6, explain why the answers in the third column do or do not make sense.
		a. Secret is above Confidential and the categories match
		b. Secret is not above Top Secret
		b. Secret is above Unclassified and {} is a subset of {Nuclear}


Lecture 8.
	1. Why do you think we introduced the vocabulary terms: objects, subjects, actions?
		a. For clarification
	2. Prove that dominates is a partial order (reflexive, transitive, antisymmetric).
		a. Secret-{Crypto} and Secret-{Nuclear} have no dominance relation, although they may be in the same system. 
	3. Show that dominates is not a total order.
		a. Secret-{Crypto} and Secret-{Nuclear} have no dominance relation, although they may be in the same system. 
	4. What would have to be true for two labels to dominate each other?
		a. (L1, S1) dominates (L2, S2) iff L1>= L2 in the ordering of levels and S1 is a subset of S2.
	5. State informally what the the Simple Security property says.
		a. Users can read at their security sensitivity level and below.
	6. Explain why it’s “only if” and not “if and only if.”
		a. "Only if" implies that some constraint must be met, but there might be other constraints. "If and only if" implies that listed is all the constraints.


Lecture 9.
	1. Why isn’t Simple Security enough to ensure confidentiality?
		a. Because a subject could write down information to a lower level.
	2. Why do we need constraints on write access?
		a. Because a subject could write down information to a lower level.
	3. What is it about computers, as opposed to human beings, that makes that particularly important?
		a. Because there could be spyware on the computer that illegally copies information without user knowledge.
	4. State informally what the *-Property says.
		a. Subjects with higher levels cannot write to a lower level object.
	5. What must be true for a subject to have both read and write access to an object?
		a. The subject must be of an equal clearance to that of the object.
	6. How could we deal with the problem that the General (top secret) can’t send orders to the private (Unclassified)?
	7. Isn’t it a problem that a corporal can overwrite the war plan? Suggest how we might deal with that.
		a. Integrity is not a goal within the system we set up. If it was to become a goal, we might deal with it by password protecting certain documents, downgrading documents, or setting up a system in which a someone has to authorize changes to documents.

Lecture 10.
	1. Evaluate changing a subject’s level (up or down) in light of weak tranquility.
		a. This allows for a potential write down or read up of information - if it is abused, it creates a conflict in confidentiality. 
	2. Why not just use strong tranquility all the time?
		a. Weak tranquility provides a more robust system. For instance, a private can get promoted to a corporal to sergeant. As the subject gets promoted, he should have access to more confidential documents. Another example, a document could be downgraded because the information is no longer pertainent. For instance, a science experiment decides to publish its previously secret results.
	3. Explain why lowering the level of an object may be dangerous.
		a. If you lower a document, all of the information that was of a higher sensitivity level is now available to people with lower clearance. It is very similar to "write down" and can have confidentiality issues.
	4. Explain what conditions must hold for a downgrade (lowering object level) to be secure.
		a. It must not violate the "spirit" of the security policy. For instance - if a subject was to downgrade a document with Top Secret: Nuclear clearance to Unclassified: {}, one can assume the security policy has been violated.

Lecture 11.
	1. Suppose you wanted to build a (library) system in which all subjects had read access to all ?les, but write access to none of them. What levels could you give to subjects and objects?
		a. You would build a MAC system 
	2. Why wouldn’t you usually build an access control matrix for a BLP system?
		a. Because an access control matrix can be huge

Lecture 12. 
	 1. Suppose you had hierarchical levels L, H with L < H, but only had one category A. Draw the lattice. (Use your keyboard and editor to draw it; it doesn’t have to be fancy.)
		a. L-{A} ----------> H-{A}
		   L-{}--^------>H-{}---^

	2. Given any two labels in a BLP system, what is the algorithm for ?nding their LUB and GLB?
		a. All information flow should be on a path - trace the path to find the LUB and GLB.
	3. Explain why upward ?ow in the lattice really is the metapolicy for BLP.
		a. Each arrow represents the dominates relationships- the metapolicy in BLP is that confidentiality must be protected by forbidding the flow of information downwards. By following the arrows, the lattice shows what is allowed to access what. 

Lecture 13. 
	1. Explain how the BLP rules are supposed to enforce the metapolicy in the example on slide 1.
	2. Argue that the READ and WRITE operations given satisfy BLP.
		a. Read and Write operations satisfy BLP by following the simple security and * property rules; they do not allow the flow of information downwards.
	3. Argue that the CREATE and DESTROY operations given satisfy BLP.
		a. Create and destroy operations also don't allows the flow of information downwards, so they satisfy BLP.  
	4. What has to be true for the covert channel on slide 5 to work?
		a. SH ans SL have to have some sort of method of when to send and when to check data.
	5. Why is the DESTROY statement there?
		a. For the code to be on a loop. If they are only sending a single bit in one iteration, they must continue to send bits for any real data to transfer.
	6. Are the contents of any ?les different in the two paths?
		a. No. 
	7. Why does SL do the same thing in both cases? Must it?
		a. SL must do the same thing in both cases because it does not know what SH sent.
	8. Why does SH do different things? Must it?
		a. SH must do different things in order for it to send a 0 or 1. In this case, it knows what it is sending.
	9. Justify the statement on slide 7 that begins: “If SL ever sees...”
		a. SH is using SL's ability to access an object to send a bit of data - this can be a violation of the metapolicy if it is transmitting a high sensitivity data to SL. 

Lecture 14.
	1. A covert channel is a path for the illegal ?ow of information between subjects within a system, utilizing system resources that were not designed to be used for inter-subject communication. Two people having coffee is designed for inter-subject communication and they are not subjects within the system.
	2. No, the following was not a covert channel - because no matter what SH does, SL will always get a value of 0.
	3. Depending on whether or not SH created an object - SL will receive a different error message. That error message will tell SL to record a 0 or 1.
	4. Depending on whether or not SH released the processor early - SL will run early or on time. That time will tell SL to record a 0 or 1.
	5. Depends on whether or not p recieves values from 139 or 161.
	6. L depends on the result value of H.
	7. It might have a low bandwidth as to not flag software looking for leaks - or it might be synchronized to run slow.
	8. There would have to be a way to moditor and modify power consumption.
	9. Hardware.

Lecture 15.
	1. For instance, in the covert channel that seconds a single bit each time - thousands of bits can be sent in a single second. It adds up.
	2. There are millions of ways to transfer data - we could not think of all of them.
	3. a. Eliminate it b. reduce the bandwidth by creating noise c. monitor it