Danny Banh
EID: dgb634
CS login: dgb634
email: dannybanh@utexas.edu


CS361 Questions: Week 1

Due 5 pm, Thurs. June 12


Lecture 1
1. Security in my everyday life: the locks to my apartment building and room, my login information for the UT websites, 
email, Facebook, and other websites. It is relevant to anything I purchase with card, like food or rent payments.

2. All of the above are trying to protect my assets from potential threats, whether they are physical or digital.
If any of my assets are compromised it could mean bad things for me, such as losing money or physical threats.

3. I have been a victim of lax security, in some cases because of my own bad decisions like not locking my locker in middle school.

4. I think my laptop is not infected, but now I am not sure. It is fairly new, and I have an AntiVirus service that regularly scans and updates.

5. I use McAfee Anti Virus software, which regularly updates and scans. 

6. I believe it is probably effective, but since anti virus software updates are primarily
 a reaction to threats it is not perfect protection.

7. I do not think it overstates the issue. There are so many computer systems that attacks would be very hard to deal with.
Security is difficult to achieve over all the systems in a robust way.

8. Learning security is important for me as a potential job. Computers are becoming more and more prevalent
in the world, a lot of important assets are available and potentially threatened. There is a lot of valuable information online.

Lecture 2
1. The 5 reasons security are hard (harder than other areas of CS):
	a) Ensuring that bad things never happen, instead of other CS areas ensuring that some good thing does happen
	b) Have to know what those bad things are. All of them.
	c) Have to deal with one or more actively malicious adversaries - can't expect bad things to be ignored.
	d) Information services have lots of targets.
	e) Security is an afterthought.
	
Overall I think this covers everything. Maybe security is expensive and perfect security is impossible.


2. No, due to how complex systems are. There is a potentially infinite number of things that can go wrong. 

3. The attacker only needs to find one problem in the system to attack. 
The defender must make sure there are 0 problems in the system. If there is at least 1, then there is a weakness.
The defender must know every possible problem in every feature, while the attacker can look for just one mistake.

4. Perfect security is not possible unless absolutely no one has access to the system. 
As long as there are features that people have access to, there are security risks.

5. Any security features that are designed to make a system more secure against threats will likely make
some part of the system less easy to use in terms of functionality and user interface. 
For example, having passwords and password recovery questions are give the user more work to do to use a system.
But they are necessary for some level of security.

Lecture 3
1. Risk is the possibility that any given threat can affect a system in an unwanted way by 
exploiting some vulnerable feature in the system.

2. Yes, I agree that security is about managing risk. 
As with any real world problem there are costs. 

3. An example for risk acceptance I have is an earthquake. 
If an earthquake happens and damages my property or injures me, there was nothing I could do to prevent the earthquake.
An example for risk avoidance is not going to websites that are deemed dangerous by my VirusScan program.
If I avoid websites that exhibit malicious behavior, I can hopefully avoid getting my computer infected.
An example for risk mitigation is not walking to school while using earbuds and listening to music.
I still walk to school, but I want to reduce the risk of getting injured by a car accident.
An example for risk transfer is having health insurance.
If I do suffer injuries or loss of property, I do not lose everything.

4. ALE does not seem to be a reliable method of risk management.
The expected value is not a reliable way of managing risk in the real world because we have limited resources.
A tiny chance of a big loss in ALE has the same (or less) expected value as a large chance of small loss.
But a big loss could cripple the system, so the weighing of risk by ALE seems unsafe.

5. With limited resources in the real world, big losses (even with small chances) must be taken into account.
Psychological, technical, and economic factors are also important, not just a calculation of expected value of loss.

Lecture 4
1. The list on slide two is a list of goals for security. They are more like ideas.
The list on slide three are mechanisms that programmers can put into the system to achieve the goals. 
These are more like actual code design.

2. All three are important, but I would think confidentiality is most linked to my finances and safety, so that is most important.
Integrity is also important as I would not like my laptop to be bogged down by viruses and other malicious effects.

3. "To group and categorize data" is important for confidentiality because there needs to be different levels of security for different files.
Some files do not need anything but trivial security, or non-classified. Some files are more sensitive, so they need to have more protection.

4. Authorizations may change over time because people could gain access (or lose access), or files could get more important (or less important).

5. A security problem in a providing system can shut down its reliability.
Malicious attacks can slow the system down. The security aspect is because of the adversaries.

6. Authentication is important because of phishing. Some people pretend to be a legitimate business and scam others.
Non repudiation is important because we want reliable transactions. Buying something from Amazon can have it on both sides.
We don't want Amazon to take payment and refuse to send the goods, and we don't want the buyer to buy the goods but not pay.

Lecture 5
1. A metapolicy for a cell phone network could be to provide texting and calling services between cell phone numbers, or availability.
A metapolicy for a military database could be to provide confidentiality of plans and information between those authorized and those not authorized.

2. A metapolicy is the overall goal of a system. 
The policy is the more specific set of rules that the system has to follow to achieve the goal.

3. Three possible rules within a policy concerning students’ academic record:
	a) Only the registrar can modify grades
	b) The registrar can only modify grades based on what is sent to them by professors
	c) Only the student can access his/her own grades
	
4. Yes. Perhaps a student wants to change a grade to be a better one. 
He cannot, since it goes against the metapolicy of academic honesty.

5. The likely metapolicy involving student SSNs is to keep confidentiality of student SSNs to avoid identity theft.

6. The policies put into place for a system are all to achieve the metapolicy.
Without understanding the metapolicy, it is not going to be easy to make or understand appropriate policies.
The policies are a means to the end of the metapolicy, or overall goal.

Lecture 6
1. Military information is sensitive because the military wants possible enemies to know as little as possible about them.
Therefore it mostly deals with confidentiality.
Integrity is also an issue, as the military would not want there to be misinformation, possibly changed by someone who is not authorized.
Availability would be an issue if there were any time-related problems, perhaps an emergency.

2. The threat in the MLS example is that people view information that they should not have access to.
This is an issue of confidentiality.

3. We are concerned with only confidentiality to simplify the problem. 
It is the most important goal for a military system so we are focusing on it.
Also, integrity and availability can have aspects that conflict with our goal of confidentiality.

4. The form of the labels is (Level, {Category, Category, etc.}). 
This lets information be divided by level of security as well as what kind of information it is.
The categories means that people do not have access to information they do not need, and could potentially be sensitive.
The levels mean that very sensitive information can be limited to a smaller group, but less sensitive information can be read by more people with higher levels of access.

5. The security system works the same no matter what information labels are applied.
As long as the labeling rules are followed then the system should work as intended.
The metapolicy involves not allowing people access to information they do not need to see, not about organizing that information.

6. From most sensitive to least sensitive: 
The British have broken the German Enigma codes. 
The Normandy invasion is scheduled for June 6. 
Col. Jones just got a raise. AND Col. Smith didn't get a raise.
The cafeteria is serving chopped beef on toast today. 
The base softball team has a game tomorrow at 3 pm.

7. 
British broken the German Enigma codes: (Top Secret, {Enigma})
Normandy Invasion: (Secret, {Troop Movement})
Col. Jones just got a raise: (Confidential, {Personnel, Wages})
Col. Smith didn't get a raise: (Confidential, {Personnel, Wages})
The cafeteria is serving: (Unclassified, {Food Services})
The base softball team has a game tomorrow at 3 pm. (Unclassified, {Sports, Activities})

8. Mixed label documents can be important. 
Some information can have a lot of different aspects, and access should only be allowed if the person has access to all the categories.
This ensures that people do not have access to sensitive documents that they do not need access to.

Lecture 7
1. The "labels" for a human are probably stored in a file. 
They could match the identity of a person to their clearance level.

2. Giving a level to a person indicates the level of trust. 
A label of a document simply indicates the category and secrecy of the information that it contains.

3. In a computer, documents would be actual files organized in different folders, and humans would be users.
Users would have some sort of access level, and documents could be in different folders with different access levels.

4. The Principle of Least Privilege makes sense because it reduces the possibility of leaking information.
If a person does not need to know about a certain category, they are not given access.
If they are captured, they have less they can unwillingly disclose (or even willingly, if the situation arises).

5. Clearance: (Secret, {Crypto}) on item of Sensitivity: (Confidential, {Crypto})
Access?: Yes
This makes sense. The clearance level is higher than the sensitivity of the item, and they have the same category.

Clearance: (Secret: {Crypto, Nuclear}) on item of Sensitivity (Top Secret: {Crypto})
Access?: No
This makes sense. The clearance level is lower than the item, so it doesn't matter what the categories are; no access.

Clearance: (Secret, {Nuclear}) on item of sensitivity (Unclassified, {})
Access?: Yes
This makes sense. The clearance level is higher than the item, and there is no item category so anyone can view it.

Lecture 8
1. "Objects", "Subjects", and "Actions" are extremely general and should work in any security situation.
Security situations could use anything as the "Objects", and "Subjects" do not always have to be people.

2. Reflexive. If A is (High, {A,B,C}) then it dominates and is dominated by (High, {A,B,C}) aka A aka itself.
Transitive. If A (High, {A,B,C} dominates B (High, {A,B}, and B dominates C (High, {A}, A dominates C.
This is because the levels all dominate themselves and lower levels, and sets dominate themselves and subsets.
Anti symmetric. If A dominates B and B dominates A, then both have the same level and both have the same set.
So A = B.

3. Dominates is not a total order because there can be some A and some B such that A does not dominate B and B does not dominate A.
For example, if A is (High, {A,B,C}) and B is (Low, {D,E,F}).

4. If two labels dominate each other, they are the same label.

5. Simple security is informally, one cannot read above one's access level.


6. It is not "if and only if" because that would mean it is guaranteed.
There can be other factors that would not allow it, even if it followed the property.

Lecture 9
1. The Simple Security Principle only concerns itself with reading, or who can read what.
We need something for writing.

2. We want to keep people with lower access from accessing information of higher clearance.
This means we need to prevent people with higher access from writing information to a lower security level.
Otherwise, it is possible to leak higher clearance information to a lower security level.

3. Write constraints are particularly important for computers due to malicious programs, 
perhaps a trojan horse, that can take advantage of security and leak information.

4. * Property is informally, one cannot write below one's access level.

5. For a subject to have both read and write access to an object, their labels must dominate each other.
This means the labels must be the exact same.

6. Give the General an unclassified account. Avoid possible programs leaking classified information.

7. It is an integrity problem that a corporal can overwrite top secret plans (that he cannot even read!)
Perhaps one solution could be that people cannot write at any level but their own.

Lecture 10
1. Weak tranquility should allow subjects to change to a lower access (read down is fine) if it doesn't have residual information of that level (write down is bad).
It also suggests someone could raise the level of an object (write up is fine). 
These do not violate the spirits of the Simple Security/* property.
The opposites go against the spirits of the properties.

2. Sometimes, you may want to change levels of access because of changes in information sensitivity or promotions.

3. An object that is classified might have sensitive information. Lowering its level will let more people see it.
This might be dangerous, and it goes against the * property of "no write down".

4. A downgrade for an object can only be secure if all the information in the object is okay for being in the lower security level.
The object itself must be inspected thoroughly otherwise there could be unwanted leaks.

Lecture 11
1. To give all subjects read access but not write access, you could give subjects a level of (High, {}) 
and give objects a level of (Low, {}). The subjects dominate the objects so they can read only.

2. The reasons why you may not make a matrix for a BLP system is because 
	a) there could be many subjects and objects, most of which do not have either dominates relationship
	b) the relationships between subjects and objects are easily computed through the Simple Security and *-property.
	
Lecture 12
1. 
(H, {A})
^
(H, {})
^
(L, {A})
^
(L, {})

2. Given two labels in a BLP system, if one dominates the other, it is the lowest upper bound.
The other is the greatest lower bound.
They can form a lattice of labels between them, where information can flow.

3. BLP informally states "no write down" and "no read up". This means that BLP allows write up and read down.
So higher clearance levels can "pull information up" by reading down.
Lower clearance levels can "push information up" by writing up.
This means the metapolicy is upwards information flow.

Lecture 13
1. The metapolicy is that information flows from low to high.
The high level can "pull information up" by reading down.
The low level can "push information up" by writing up.

2. READ: If the level of clearance of the subject is higher than the object, read is allowed. Otherwise not allowed.
This is fine by BLP because you can "read down" but not "read up".

WRITE: If the level of clearance of the subject is lower than the object, read is allowed. Otherwise not allowed.
This is fine by BLP because you can "write up" but not "write down".

3. CREATE: Since this has nothing to do with accessing information, it is okay by BLP.
DESTROY: Information can only flow up, so DESTROY only allows a lower level subject to destroy an object with greater or equal level.

4. The covert channel on slide 5 only works if there are no other Subjects in play that might create object F0.
This would make the algorithm not reliable.

5. The DESTROY statement is there to allow the algorithm to be looped. It resets the situation.

6. The contents of the files are the same in either case.

7. SL must do the same thing in both cases because it cannot know what SH will send.
If SL knew what SH will send, then there is no need for the algorithm in the first place!

8. SH is the one sending the information. What SH does depends on the information it wants to send.
It is possible that it only wants to send 0 or it only wants to send 1, but presumably not likely.

9. The metapolicy says information only flows upwards. Never downwards.
Covert channels allow downwards flow of information to happen based on the higher level's actions.
Essentially there is downwards communication, which violates the metapolicy

Lecture 14
1. "Two human users talking over coffee" is not a covert channel because it is not an illegal flow of information
Covert channels also utilize system flaws that were not meant for communication, which is not the case here.

2. No, SL gets the same information from READ in both cases. 
The READ is trying to access an object with higher security both times, causing READ to only return 0.

3. The bit of information in Covert Channel #1 resides in the READ function. 
READ allows SL to see whether or not an object is created by SH or does not exist, meaning SH can communicate in that way.

4. The bit of information in Covert Channel #2 resides in the system clock.
SH and SL cannot communicate directly but the amount of time elapsed between SH giving up the processor can be consulted.

5. The bit of information in Covert Channel #3 resides in the scanning algorithm by how it distributes disk drive cylinders.
The information SL receives is related to SH's actions. 

6. The bit of information in Covert Channel #4 simply resides in H. The flow of the system then informs L.

7. A termination channel may have low bandwidth because of how long it takes to see if something terminates. 

8. A power channel must have some way to check the power, and a way to significantly change the power without interference.

9. A possible power channel example may be some higher level Subject using a lot of power by large computations.
Then a lower level Subject can measure this and obtain information.

Lecture 15
1. Covert channels are still dangerous, as they can operate quickly (1000 bits per second) while being hard to notice.
They do not usually have a large effect on system processing.

2. It is infeasible to eliminate all possible covert channels. Some might be incredibly inefficient.
Some might be very easy to notice the channel being used as a covert channel.

3. Multiple possible responses: 
	a)modifying the system implementation.
	b)introducing noise into the channel.
	c)monitoring it for patterns of usage that indicate someone is trying to exploit it/intrusion detection. 
	
4. Both sender and receiver must have access to some attribute of a shared object.
The sender must be able to modify and receiver must be able to view.
Both need a way to sequence their accesses so the receiver knows when the sender makes a change.

So one example of a scenario would be when a lower level subject (receiver) can READ an object and either get information that it does not exist, or that it is above his level of access.

5. The algorithm for the above covert channel would be this:
Sender (Higher Level) READs Object A and Object B. If neither exist, Receiver is ready for the next bit.
Sender (Higher Level) CREATEs Object A or Object B to signify a 0 or 1, respectively.
Receiver (Lower Level) READs Object A. Learns that it exists (beyond access level) or does not exist. Same for Object B.
Receiver DELETEs Object A or B, depending on which one Sender created. 
If neither Object A/B exist, it signifies Receiver is ready for the next bit.

Lecture 16
1. If the CREATE does not give an error message when trying to create a file that already exists, it will not have an R under "File Existence".
CREATE would have an R if it did give an error message.

2. R and M on the same row suggests that it is possible for the sender to modify and the receiver to read from that system attribute.
This means a covert channel may be possible with different system calls to the same attribute.

3. No, channels rely on a shared system attribute. It is not going to be possible to use operations with arbitrary attributes.

4. SRMM is a systematic approach to look for covert channels. 
Identifying covert channels is important so the designer can decide how to deal with them.

