Name: Adan Briones
EID: asb2227
CS Login: adanb26
Email: adidan26@yahoo.com

  Lecture 1
	1. Personal security, network security, and system security are relvant to my everyday life.
	2. All of these have to do with the protection of something against threats.
	3. No, I have not been a victim of lax security.
	4. I think it is unlikely, because I have never encountered something on my computer to believe it is infected.
	5. I use typical security software that uses firewalls and anti-malware/anti-spyware.
	6. I think they are effective because they have kept my laptop safe as far as I can tell.
	7. I think it overstates the case a lttle bit. I think threats may challenge our current way of life, but not the existence.
	8. Security is becoming more important because both the amount of digital information and the number of threats are increasing, and learning about security can
		help you protect yourself as well as others.
  Lecture 2
	1. Other factors that make security hard is the fact that threats are always evolving and it is impossible to defend against everything.
	2. No, because you can't be sure that you are aware of all the possible threats.
	3. The defender needs to find and eliminate all vulnerabilities to be successful, but the attacker only needs to find one that is not secure.
	4. Yes, there will always be new threats or holes in security that can be exploited. Security can never promise 100 percent success.
	5. The statement just says that some risks need to be accepted in order to maintain the goals of the project, because trying to 
		secure those risks will hinder the project's functionality.
  Lecture 3
	1. Risk is the possibility that a particular threat will adversely impact an information system by exploiting a vulnerability.
	2. Yes, not all threats can be addressed equally, so decisions must be made on how to handle the risks differently.
	3. A risk I accept is the possibility of being struck by lightning when walking in the rain,
		A risk I avoid is sky diving,
		A risk I mitigate shoe damage when I wear old shoes when it is raining,
		A risk I transfer is liability by having car insurance.
	4. I think it can be misleading because the risk with the highest ALE is not always the top priority.
	5. Some factors to consider when assesing risks are the probability of the risk occuring, the ALE of the risk, and the cost of handling the risk.

  Lecture 4
	1. Slide 2 contains aspects of security while slide 3 containsmechanisms to protect the aspects of security.
	2. I think availability is most important for me. If my system was not available, I would not be able to do school work.
	3. It means you group your data based on the level of sensitivitl of that data.
	4. In a business setting,authorizations may change if a person is promoted or demoted within a company.
	5. These are related because a reliable system secures the availability of resources.
	6. Authentication and non-repudiation are important when shopoing online. Authentication can confirm a shoppers identity and non-repudiation
		would help ensure transactions are carried out ethically.
  Lecture 5
	1. Phone Network: Keep clients' phone records confidential. Military: Maintain the integrity of all documents.
	2. The policy is the set of rules used to implement the metapolicy goals.
	3. Do not post academic records, destroy documents containing records unless needed, and secure documents with records if they are needed.
	4. Yes, a student may want to view their academic records that a school is trying to keep confidential.
	5. Keep students' SSNs confidential
	6. If you don't understand a security project's goals, you can't write effective rules to support the project's goals.
  Lecture 6
	1. Confidentialiy is important because national security is at risk. Yes, there are aspects of integrity and availability.
	2. THe major threat in the experiment is the unauthorized access of information.
	3. To explain that we are only worried about confidentiality because it is known there are integrity issues with this experiment.
	4. Each label contains a hierarchial component and a set of categories.
	5. Our only concern is to make sure only people with the correct authorization to view information does so.
	6. From most sensitive to least: Normandy invasion, British jave broken German Enigma codes, raise info, softball game, cafeteria menu
	7. Top Secret{Plans}, Secret{Allies}, Confidentail{Employee Finances}, Unclassified{Recreation}, Unclassified{Cafeteria}.
	8. A document needs the highest appropriate level based on its contents in order to ensure the security of that information.
		Using both categories to label mixed information also adds more security to that document.
  Lecture 7
	1. Labels are assigned to humans using clearances or authorization levels.
	2. Labels on documents indicate information sensitivity, while labels on humans indicate what information they can access.
	3. Files and User IDs.
	4. No person should have acces to information that is irrelevant to their job.
	5. The two yes answers make sense because the clearance dominates the sensitivity, and the no makes sense because the clearance 
		doesn't dominate the sensitivity.
  Lecture 8
	1. These terms were introduced because they are most commonly used in real world settings.
	2. Reflexive: The label l{} >= l{}, Transitive: if H{a}>=l{a} ^ l{a}>=l{} then H{a} >= l{},
		Anti-Symmetric: the label l{} >= l{} ^ l{} >] l{} therefore l{} = l{}.
	3. Consider the labels L{a} and L{b}, neither label dominates the other, therefore dominates isn't total order.
	4. The labels would have to be equal.
	5. A subject is granted read access to an object if the clearance of the subject dominates the object sensitivity level.
	6. There may be other factors that are used to determine if access is granted.
  Lecture 9
	1. Simple Security does not address write access, only read access.
	2. We need to ensure that someone doesn't write sensitive information somewhere that can be accessed by someone without proper clearance.
	3. Programs operating on behalf of users are not as trustworthy as the users themselves.
	4. The *-property states that a subject is granted write access to an object if the sensitivity level of the object dominates the subject's clearance.
	5. The clearance of the subject must be equal to the sensitivity of the object.
	6. We could add a different attribute that allows certain people such as the general to have special clearances.
	7. We could limit the level that the corporal can write up to.
  Lecture 10
	1. A subject's level going up is not okay because it would be like a read up. However, a subject's level going down is okay because that is like a read down.
	2. There may be instances where labels change. In the military context, this could be the result of promotions or demotions of subjects.
	3. It is equivilent to a write down and can jeopardize confidentiality.
	4. In order for a downgrade to be secure, the downgrade must not violate the simple security or *-property.
  Lecture 11
	1. All of the subjects' levels would be above the objects' levels
	2. There would be just too many objects and subjects for the matrix to be worth the time.
  Lecture 12
	1.         h{A}   (h{A} dominates all others, h{} donimates l{}, l{A} dominates l{}, l{} is dominated by all)
	          / | \
               l{A} |  h{}
                  \ | /
	           l{}
	2. You can arrange the labels into a lattice and use the lattice to find the LUB and GLB.
	3. The upward flow of information in the lattice is the metapolicy for BLP because it constrains the flow of information in only one direction.
  Lecture 13
	1. They are supposed to only allow information to travel from L to H.
	2. They are in accordance with the read down, write up allowances of BLP.
	3. Create is a Write at a subjects own level. A destroy is a write at ones own level or above. These are equal to writing up and are supported.
	4. The order of operations must be the same each time.
	5. So that the process can be repeated.
	6. No.
	7. Yes, to ensure the info over the channel is only a result of one variable.
	8. SH does different things in order to get the desired info to SL.
	9. SH can purposefully vary the result seen by SL in order to send information to SL.
  Lecture 14
	1. A covert channel describes information flow through the system. Two humans talking does not go through the system.
	2. No, SL would not be able to read F0.
	3. The bit of information is in the system state. Based on whether the resource exists or not.
	4. This bit resides in the system clock.
	5. I think this is a storage channel and the bit of onfo resides in the system state.
	6. This bit is contained in a program and is determined using a variable in the program.
	7. It requires very little bandwidth to send the information.
	8. Power would have to be used and recorded somewhere that can be referenced.
	9. Devices that vary power use based on operations such as devices with processors, like computers.
  Lecture 15
	1. Covert channels are capable of operating at thousands of bits per second with very little impact on processing.
	2. There are just too many possibilities to be able to eliminate every single one.
	3. The channel can be eliminated, its bandwidth can be restricted, or the channel can be monitored.
	4. Both the Sender and Receiver must have access to an attribute of a shared object,
		the sender must be able to modify the attribute, and
		The receiver must be able to reference the attribute.
	5. The receiver can record the attribute being modified by the sender in order to recieve some kind of message.
  Lecture 16
	1. After the create operation is executed we know that the object exists, however the operation itself tells us nothing.
	2. It shows the object can be both modified and referenced.
	3. Yes, because if create provides feedback, such as if the file exists already, information could be taken that.
	4. The table would expose the potential covert channels so that they can be addressed.
