Jesse Jones
Hw 5
Ut eid: jsj573
Cs id: jones512
email: jessear5890@yahoo.com

Lecture 75 
1. It was not related in anyway except the fact that the contributors knew about Code Red. 

2. This allows a "backdoor" to open up more vulnurabilities, which allows any code to be executed, so the machines could be used as zombies for future attacks on the system.  

3. It attempts to use certain bits from the machines to try and affect machines on the same network or subnet which will most likely be running similar software to itself.  

4. If there is a large population of unpatched machines, then that means the infections are going to keep circulating. 

5. People do not really patch their machines regularly.   
 
Lecture 76 
1. Most customers don't have the training to perform these steps. A solution could be to provide a standardized process of independent evaluation by expert teams for them to provide a certified level of confidence for security products. 
 
2. It is a set of requirements defining security functionality, a set of assurance requirements needed for establishing functional requirements, a methodology for determing that the functional requirements are met, and a measure of evaluation rresult indicating the trustworthiness of the evaluated system.  

3. Cryptology is a sensitive area and there aren't as many experts for crypto devices.  

4. Level 1 is basic sercurity where there is at least one approved algorithm or function. Level 2 has improved physical security and tamper-evident packaging. Level 3 has strong tamper-resistance and countermeasures. Level 4 is a complete envelope of protection including immediate zeroing of keys upon tampering.  
 
Lecture 77 

1. Common Criteria is a secure systems evaluation criteria that has been adopted by 26 countries. 

2. Evaluations accepted by one country should be acceptted or be common in another country.  

3. At a certain high levels, countries stop accepting other's evaluations.  

4. A security target is a specific system or family of systems, and a protection profile is a formal description of security for a class of systems. 
 
Lecture 78 

1. It weighs the trash containers via short-range radios and stores the information and later transmits it to the government for billing. It must make sure that such messages or ID tags are not altered or disrupted.  

2. To detect invalid ID tags, detect invalid bin-cleared messages, and fault tolerance.  

3. The idea is that if the matrix is filled, then you can determine whether or not the security measures or mechanims have dealt with the threats.  
 
Lecture 79 

1. Its goal is to have no untrusted user on the system and that the OS has reliable time stamps so that the log will always provide proper information.  

2. It is more specific to the system and what security means for this product. They also note how the product enforces that notion of security.  
 
Lecture 80 

1. EAL is evaluation assurance level and it shows what time expenditures and rigor was applied during the development and testing. 

2. Certifying agency or at a certain level, the government.  

3. At increasing levels, where data it is more sensative, each country may want to have their own criterias that they trust 

4. Evaluation tests absolutely must be performed by an independent organization with certification to perform CC testing.  

5. You need a formal model of security because it impossible to reverse the process.  