Name:Drew Zoellner
EID:DTZ64
CS Login:Drew2222
Email:andrewzoellner@hotmail.com

Lecture 17
1. If a computer system complies with the BLP model, does it necessarily
comply with non-interference? Why or why not?

Yes, non-interference only requires a policy of information flow and can support transitive properties like the BLP model does. However, a non-interference system can hold a policy that doesn’t show transitive properties and might therefore not be supported by a BLP model.

2. What would the NI policy be for a BLP system with subjects: A at (Secret:
Crypto), B at (Secret: Nuclear)?

Since neither subjects dominate the other, there would be no information flow between them. Therefore the policy says there would be no information flow.

3. Can covert channels exist in an NI policy? Why or why not?

Yes, for the same reasons that covert channels can exist in a BLP model, they can exist in a NI policy. However they aren’t supposed to exist, so maybe they can’t exist if the NI policy is carried out correctly.

4. If the NI policy is A− > B, in a BLP system what combinations of the
levels “high” and “low” could A and B have?

A could be Low and B could High. Also, A and B could be on the same levels of low and high.

Lecture 18
1. Why do NI policies better resemble metapolicies than policies?

NI policies aren’t specific rules like in the BLP model. NI policies just dictate the directed flow of information but not necessarily a code level specification.

2. What would be L’s view of the following actions: h1, l1, h2, h3, . . . , hj,
l2, l3, . . . , lk

l1, l2, l3, … , lk is L’s view because L should not be able to see any of the high level subjects actions.

3. What is difﬁcult about proving NI for realistic systems?

NI is difficult to prove for realistic systems because there are many possible covert channels in realistic systems. To prove NI policies one might need a model of the low level aspects of a system which isn’t available in most cases.

Lecture 19
1. Explain the importance of integrity in various contexts.

For a bank, integrity of a system would make sure that no user could go into the system and change his or her’s bank account balance. For a newspaper company, their reputation might be tarnished if absence of integrity in their computer system allowed for someone to write false stories on their website.

2. Why would a company or individual opt to purchase commercial software
rather than download a similar, freely available version?

Free software might be more readily available to a hacker and would therefore be easier for the hacker to manipulate it since they have access to it. Commercial software would have an element of mystery to anyone trying to bypass its security software.

3. Explain the difference between separation of duty and separation of function?

Separation of duty requires more than one person to perform a certain action so that if there is collusion, it is less likely for there to be collusion with another person as well. Separation of function prevents one person from colluding with himself by preventing a single person from having two jobs that are linked together in an information channel.

4. What is the importance of auditing in integrity contexts?

Auditing can be used to trace back the actions of the system so that if there is an integrity breach, one can find out what happened and roll back the system or hold someone responsible for the integrity breach.

5. What are the underlying ideas that raise the integrity concerns of Lipner?

Those who code applications may put backdoors in the system so that they can exploit them later. Therefore the coders should be separate from those with access to important parts of the system.

Lecture 20
1. Give examples of information that is highly reliable with little sensitivity
and information that is not so highly reliable but with greater sensitivity.

Time of day as told by the world clock // Conspiracy theory by an unknown website

2. Explain the dominates relationships for each row in the table on slide 4.

Row 1: Label 1 dominates label 2 because expert > student and physics is a superset of physics.
Row 2: Label 1 doesn’t dominate label 2 because novice < expert.
Row 3: Label 1 dominates label 2 because student > novice and Art is a superset of an empty set.

3. Construct the NI policy for the integrity metapolicy.

Low <- High, we don’t want information to flow from low to high because then untrusted low level information might corrupt high level information.

4. What does it mean that conﬁdentiality and integrity are “orthogonal issues?”

Confidentiality and Integrity are unrelated in a sense. Since they are unrelated they should be treated separately with their own set of rules.

Lecture 21
1. Why is Biba Integrity called the “dual” of the BLP model?

The rules are similar except opposite to the rules of the BLP model.

2. Why in the ACM on slide 5 is the entry for Subj3 - Obj3 empty?

There is no domination between the subject and object since neither set is a superset of the other.

3. If a subject satisﬁes conﬁdentiality requirements but fails integrity requirements of an object, can the subject access the object?

No, both rules must be applied.

Lecture 22
1. What is the assumption about subjects in Biba’s low water mark policy?

Subjects can’t be trusted when reading bad information. They must be lowered to the bad information’s integrity level after reading it. This policy assumes subjects will believe anything they hear.

2. Are the subjects considered trustworthy?

No.

3. Does the Ring policy make some assumption about the subject that the
LWM policy does not?

Yes, the Ring policy assumes that the subjects will disregard bad information instead of thinking that it is good.

4. Are the subjects considered trustworthy?

Yes.

Lecture 23
1. Are the SD and ID categories in Lipner’s model related to each other?

Yes, they are both belonging to the development level of integrity and confidentiality labels.

2. Why is it necessary for system controllers to have to ability to downgrade?

Well a product or program must be changed from access capabilities of the developers to a lower level of the tellers (in the banking scenario). This requires for a system controller to change the level of confidentiality down to allow tellers to use the applications.

3. Can system controllers modify development code/test data?

No, this goes back to the idea of separation of function. Someone who can change the code, shouldn’t be the one overseeing the operation to move it to use due to possible collusion.

4. What form of tranquility underlies the downgrade ability?

Weak-tranquility.

Lecture 24
1. What is the purpose of the four fundamental concerns of Clark and Wilson?

The purpose of the concerns of Clark and Wilson was to design a security system to model Commercial companies instead of just applying military security. Authentication makes sure the correct person is doing a certain action, audit tracks the transactions of everything important in the system, well-formed transactions say that there are a set of changes that users can make to the system and Separation of duty avoids collusion by requiring multiple people for a transaction of high security.

2. What are some possible examples of CDIs in a commercial setting?

Bank account balances, total profits for a store or number of users registered in a day for a website.

3. What are some possible examples of UDIs in a commercial setting?

Candy taken from a bank, name tags created for a software company, t-shirts given out at a festival by DELL.

4. What is the difference between certiﬁcation and enforcement rules?

Certification rules maintain that the system is not in a corrupted state when performing an action and enforcement rules require that the correct person is performing a certain action.

5. Give an example of a permission in a commercial setting.

A bank teller might have the permission {Teller ; Transactions, Account Creation; (Account values, User Account)}

Lecture 25
1. Why would a consultant hired by American Airlines potentially have a
breach of conﬁdentiality if also hired by United Airlines?

Maybe certain classified files contained by American Airlines about the hiring methods of the company could give United Airlines a competitive advantage over hiring skilled plane pilots by means of the consultant who now works for United Airlines. This is a confidentiality breach and could result in United Airlines hiring the pilots that American Airlines would have gotten.

2. In the example conﬂict classes, if you accessed a ﬁle from GM, then subsequently accessed a ﬁle from Microsoft, will you then be able to access
another ﬁle from GM?

Yes, since GM and Microsoft are in different conflict classes it is possible to go back and forth between these separate classes.

3. Following the previous question, what companies’ ﬁles are available for
access according to the simple security rule?

This subject can view GM objects, Microsoft objects and any objects belonging to a company outside of the car or tech industry.

4. What differences separate the Chinese Wall policy from the BLP model?

The Chinese Wall policy introduces a specific constraint so that any subject who wants to access and object must not have accessed another object in a similar conflict class in its previous history.

Lecture 26
1. What beneﬁts are there in associating permissions with roles, rather than
subjects?

If a company has a large amount of subjects it is easier to assign them a role rather than individually assign each subject a list of unique permissions since permissions are granted by giving a subject a role.

2. What is the difference between authorized roles and active roles?

Authorized roles are things a subject can do in general, but active roles are things that a subject is currently in need of doing.

3. What is the difference between role authorization and transaction authorization?

Role authorization ensures that a subjects active roles are within their authorized roles. Transaction authorization ensures that the action a subject is trying to complete is within that subjects active roles.

4. What disadvantages do standard access control policies have when compared to RBAC?

Standard access control policies are elss flexibile compared to RBAC policies. It is easier to administer actions for a given role than to all the subjects individually especially for larger companies.

Lecture 27
1. Why would one not want to build an explicit ACM for an access control
system?

Most subjects don't have access to the vast majority of objects. The ACM is too large and requires too much memory and can be unnecessary.

2. Name, in order, the ACM alternatives for storing permissions with objects,
storing permissions with subjects and computing permissions on the ﬂy.

A set of rules to check if a subject has access to an object on the fly, all the objects contain access requirements in an access control list or the subjects have the accesss capabilities in a capability based system.

Lecture 28
1. What must be true for the receiver to interpret the answer to a “yes” or “no”
question?

The reciever must agree on an encoding scheme with the sender. 

2. Why would one want to quantify the information content of a message?

One might be interested in the time it takes to get enough data through a covert channel for it to be useful. Quantifying the information of each send accross a covert channel can lead to an encoding scheme that works.

3. Why must the sender and receiver have some shared knowledge and an
agreed encoding scheme?

If the sender sends a yes or a no, the reciever must have agreed upon whether the signals being sent actually match up to 1 or 0 bits, otherwise all the bits could be switched.

4. Why wouldn’t the sender want to transmit more data than the receiver needs
to resolve uncertainty?

If there is a time pressing issue for the covert channel, the sender and reciver would want to maximize throughput of information and therefor extra data would slow down the transmition times.

5. If the receiver knows the answer to a question will be “yes,” how many bits
of data quantify the information content? Explain.

0, if the reciever already knows the answer to a question then no data is being transfered accross the covert channel.

Lecture 29
1. How much information is contained in each of the ﬁrst three messages from
slide 2?

- n bits
- 4 bits
- 8 bits (depends on the degree of uncertainty)

2. Why does the amound of information contained in “The attack is at dawn”
depend on the receiver’s level of uncertainty?

If the attack could only happen at dawn or dusk, then there would only need to be 1 bit of information needed. If the attack could happen at any hour of the day then there would need to be log based2 of 24 bits of information.

3. How many bits of information must be transmitted for a sender to send one
of exactly 16 messages? Why?

4 bits, because log2 of 16 = 4

4. How much information content is contained in a message from a space of
256 messages?

8 bits

5. Explain why very few circumstances are ideal, in terms of sending information content.

There are many cases where the level of uncertainty is large and many bits are needed to encode the number of possiblities.

Lecture 30
1. Explain the difference between the two connotations of the term “bit.”

The first definition refers to a bit being a binary digit with value 1 or 0 (discrete). The second refers to the quantity of information (continuous).

2. Construct the naive encoding for 8 possible messages.

000 001 010 100 110 011 101 111

3. Explain why the encoding on slide 5 takes 995 + (5 * 5) bits.

Since there is only 1 bit needed for a message that occurs 99.5% of the time then over 1000 runs there will be .995*1000*1 = 995 bits from this frequent message and .005*1000*5 = 25 bits from the rest of the messages.

4. How can knowing the prior probabilities of messages lead to a more efﬁcient
encoding?

One can encode the more frequently used messages with lower bits.

5. Construct an encoding for 4 possible messages that is worse than the naive
encoding.

100000000 11111000000 111110000011110000 111110000000111

6. What are some implications if it is possible to ﬁnd an optimal encoding?

One might need to test some data to find the averages of the messages being sent and then create an optimal encoding. The naive encoding will work less efficient that this optimal encoding.

Lecture 31
1. Name a string in the language consisting of positive, even numbers.

42862846284628462486

2. Construct a non-preﬁx-free encoding for the possible rolls of a 6-sided die.

1:1
2:11
3:111
4:1111
5:11111
6:111111

3. Why is it necessary for an encoding to be uniquely decodable?

If there are two encodings that point to two or more messages then the reciever won't be able to tell which message is being sent.

4. Why is a lossless encoding scheme desirable?

There is no lost data. The whole message can be recovered.

5. Why doesn’t Morse code satisfy our criteria for encodings?

It isn't prefix free and it isn't streaming. There are spaces or time in between characters so that prefix free isn't necessary but for streaming bits this won't work.

Lecture 32
1. Calculate the entropy of an 8-sided, fair die (all outcomes are equally likely).

H = -(log 1/8) = 3

2. If an unbalanced coin is 4 times more likely to yield a tail than a head, what
is the entropy of the language?

H = -(1/5 log 1/5 + 4/5 log 4/5) = 0.72

3. Why is knowing the entropy of a language important?

It sets a lower bound on the average number of bits per encoding so that the covert channel can choose an encoding that works the fastest.

Lecture 33
1. Explain the reasoning behind the expectations presented in slide 3.

These expectations are the average of the number of HH, HT, TH and TT that would occur over 16 trials. The probability of getting H is 3/4 so HH is (3/4)^2 and so on...

2. Explain why the total expected number of bits is 27 in the example presented
in slide 4.

Since most of the coin flips are only going to require 0.5 bits (1 bit for 2 heads) this lowers the average number of bits needed for the 16 trials. Over all the combinations there is an average of 27 bits required if 2 coins are flipped before transmition.

3. What is the naive encoding for the language in slide 5?

000 001 100 010 110 011

4. What is the entropy of this language?

Probabillities
1:6x|6/20
2:6x|6/20
3:3x|3/20
4:3x|3/20
5:1x|1/20
6:1x|1/20
Sum: 20x

H = -(6/20 log2 (6/20) + 6/20 log2 (6/20) + 3/20 log2 (3/20) + 3/20 log2 (3/20) + 1/20 log2 (1/20) + 1/20 log2 (1/20)) = 2.295

5. Find an encoding more efﬁcient than the naive encoding for this language.

1:1
2:01
3:001
4:0001
5:00001
6:000001

6. Why is your encoding more efﬁcient than the naive encoding?

1:6/20 * 1
2:6/20 * 2
3:3/20 * 3
4:3/20 * 4
5:1/20 * 5
6:1/20 * 6
Sum: 2.5 bits per roll on average which is less than 3.
