Name: Justin Baiko	
EID:jb39998
CS Login: baiko	
Email: baiko@utexas.edu



CS361 Questions: Week 2
These questions relate to Modules 4, 5, 6 and 7. Type your answers and submit
them via email to Dr. Young by 5pm on Thursday, June 19.
The questionsmarked with a dagger (†) require external research and may be more
extensive and time consuming. You don’t have to do them for the assignment but,
but you may want to do them to increase your knowledge of the subject matter.
Lecture 17
1. If a computer system complies with the BLP model, does it necessarily
comply with non-interference? Why or why not?

No because it would need a direct line from subject a to b but a non interference would require it to go through a to b then to b to c.

2. What would the NI policy be for a BLP system with subjects: A at (Secret:
Crypto), B at (Secret: Nuclear)?
Depends if nuclear is higher rank than crypto. they are both Secret but it depends, for example if crypto > nuclear than b |-> A would be the NI policy.

Can covert channels exist in an NI policy? Why or why not? 
   I don’t think so because a non interference policy means that no matter what high level actions exist the low level inputs cannot see.

If the NI policy is A− > B, in a BLP system what combinations of the levels “high” and “low” could A and B have? 
    A->A, B->B and A-> B

Lecture 18

Why do NI policies better resemble metapolicies than policies? 
   They are non descript in the sense of what actions can be taken. Just an overall policy not a way to regulate policy.

What would be L’s view of the following actions: h1, l1, h2, h3, . . . , hj, l2,l3,. . . ,lk 
   if following a NI policy it would only be able to see its own actions.

What is difficult about proving NI for realistic systems? 
   Theres a lot of a low level attributes that provide interference among other things.

Lecture 19

Explain the importance of integrity in various contexts. 
	Depending on the source of the information you will react differently in situations.

Why would a company or individual opt to purchase commercial software rather than download a similar, freely available version? 
	The freeware could have malware that an unsuspecting user wouldn’t notice.

Explain the difference between separation of duty and separation of function. 
    Separation of Duty requires several people to be included in the action occurring while separation of function requires that a person 		cannot be holding two conflicting job positions.

What is the importance of auditing in integrity contexts? 
	There has to be accountability and a hierarchy of order within a workplace environment.

What are the underlying ideas that raise the integrity concerns of Lipner? 
        Everything has to be done within procedure and using proven software versus possibly unprotected software to do the same job. A trail of accountability exists.

6. Name a common scenario where integrity would be more important than confidentiality.

A bank using bad software has a trojan that lets a unauthorized user steal money.

Lecture 20

Give examples of information that is highly reliable with little sensitivity and information that is not so highly reliable but with greater sensitivity. 
         HRLS: new york times posting an article about the obama administration.

         HRGS: saddam hues sins whereabouts.

Explain the dominates relationships for each row in the table on slide 4. 
        Well a expert dominates a student of anything.

        a novice dominates a student.

       a student of art will dominate a novice of nothing.
3. Construct the NI policy for the integrity metapolicy.

good |-> bad
4. What does it mean that confidentiality and integrity are “orthogonal issues?”

it means there is a trade off in confidentiality and integrity issues when it comes to orthogonal. have to treat them separately.

Lecture 21
1. Why is Biba Integrity called the “dual” of the BLP model?
because you can switch the read and writes of the two and we get the inverse.

2. Why in the ACM on slide 5 is the entry for Subj3 - Obj3 empty?
Because they belong to different sets.

3. If a subject satisfies confidentiality requirements but fails integrity requirements
of an object, can the subject access the object?
Yes.

Lecture 22

1. What is the assumption about subjects in Biba’s low water mark policy?
it assumes that you are as trust worthy as the information you are reading.

2. Are the subjects considered trustworthy?
No.
3. Does the Ring policy make some assumption about the subject that the
LWM policy does not?

It assumes that everyone is going to read low integrity information at some point.
4. Are the subjects considered trustworthy?
Yes.

Lecture 23
1. Are the SD and ID categories in Lipner’s model related to each other?

Yes because they are interelated. They are given security labels.

2. Why is it necessary for system controllers to have to ability to downgrade?
Because at some point software has to go from developmentto production.

3. Can system controllers modify development code/test data?
Yes.
4. What form of tranquility underlies the downgrade ability?
That the user is trustworthy.
Lecture 24
1. What is the purpose of the four fundamental concerns of Clark andWilson?
It is a layout of what any commercial enterprise should have in a secure system that it uses.
2. What are some possible examples of CDIs in a commercial setting?
e-mails.
phone numbers.
3. What are some possible examples of UDIs in a commercial setting?
websites visited.
views of websites visted.
4. What is the difference between certification and enforcement rules?
certification of cdi vs enforcement of rules of creating cdi's
5. Give an example of a permission in a commercial setting.
transfer of bank funds.

Lecture 25
1. Why would a consultant hired by American Airlines potentially have a
breach of confidentiality if also hired by United Airlines?
Because he might have a conflict of integrity.

2. In the example conflict classes, if you accessed a file from GM, then subsequently
accessed a file from Microsoft, will you then be able to access
another file from GM?

Yes as long as you haven't accessed any of GM's competitors.
3. Following the previous question, what companies’ files are available for
access according to the simple security rule?

Any companies files that are in the same datasets or belongs to a entirely different set of objects.

4. What differences separate the Chinese Wall policy from the BLP model?
It doesnt specify the direction of information flow just about how it can't overlap groups.

Lecture 26
1. What benefits are there in associating permissions with roles, rather than
subjects?
It allows people to switch roles and gain or lose permissions depending the on acting role they are in.

2. What is the difference between authorized roles and active roles?
Authorized roles are the list of all potential roles, active ones are the ones currently being used.
3. What is the difference between role authorization and transaction authorization?
RA: a subjects active role must be an authorized role for that subject.
TA: a subject can execute a transation only if the transaction is authorized for one of the subjects active roles.

4. What disadvantages do standard access control policies have when compared
to RBAC?
it is not as rigid and allows users to change access depending on what role they play instead of keeping them at a certain level the whole time.


Lecture 27
1. Why would one not want to build an explicit ACM for an access control
system?
It would be redundant.

2. Name, in order, the ACM alternatives for storing permissions with objects,
Maintain rules on the fly, Store permissions in a ACL or store permissions with subjects.

Lecture 28
1. What must be true for the receiver to interpret the answer to a “yes” or “no”
question?
Has to see a bit of data.
2. Why would one want to quantify the information content of a message?
Bandwith requirements.
3. Why must the sender and receiver have some shared knowledge and an
agreed encoding scheme?
How else would he be able to decipher the code?
4. Why wouldn’t the sender want to transmit more data than the receiver needs
to resolve uncertainty?
Inefficent bandwith use.
5. If the receiver knows the answer to a question will be “yes,” how many bits
of data quantify the information content? Explain.
1 bit because it can be encoded as yes or no but technically if he knows the answer why would it need to be quantified or sent in the first place.

Lecture 29
1. How much information is contained in each of the first three messages from
slide 2?
1.2^n
2.10
3.100

2. Why does the amound of information contained in “The attack is at dawn”
depend on the receiver’s level of uncertainty?
Depending on what information the reciever already has it can either assume or just be uncertain. i.e. dawn when? where is the attack?

3. How many bits of information must be transmitted for a sender to send one
of exactly 16 messages? Why?
4 because it gives you 2^4 possible ways to enocde it.

4. How much information content is contained in a message from a space of
256 messages?
8 bits.

5. Explain why very few circumstances are ideal, in terms of sending information
content.
You can't foresee how much data is being sent.

Lecture 30
1. Explain the difference between the two connotations of the term “bit.”
could be a single bit or a string of bit

2. Construct the naive encoding for 8 possible messages.
0000
0010
0100
0110
1000
1010
1110
0001

3. Explain why the encoding on slide 5 takes 995 + (5 * 5) bits.
Because if 95 percent of the messages are one instruction then you can make it 1 bit and keep the other 5 messages 5 bits and it will be better than sending 4000 bits.

4. How can knowing the prior probabilities ofmessages lead to amore efficient
encoding?
You can make the most used messages a simple bit or 2 since you are using them more often and would require less bandwith.

5. Construct an encoding for 4 possible messages that is worse than the naive
encoding.

000000
000001
000011
111111

6. What are some implications if it is possible to find an optimal encoding?
You have to know which messages are going to be used frequently.

Lecture 31
1. Name a string in the language consisting of positive, even numbers.
1111

2. Construct a non-prefix-free encoding for the possible rolls of a 6-sided die.
100
101
111
011
001
000

3. Why is it necessary for an encoding to be uniquely decodable?
Could have multiple interpretations

4. Why is a lossless encoding scheme desirable?
It is recoverable.

5. Why doesn’t Morse code satisfy our criteria for encodings?
It isn't pre-fix free.
Lecture 32
1. Calculate the entropy of an 8-sided, fair die (all outcomes are equally likely).
-(6(1/6log1/6))
2. If an unbalanced coin is 4 times more likely to yield a tail than a head, what
is the entropy of the language?
-(4/5log4/5 + 1/5log1/5)
3. Why is knowing the entropy of a language important?
It allows you to find an opitimal encoding.

Lecture 33
1. Explain the reasoning behind the expectations presented in slide 3.
It is the definition of probability.
2. Explain why the total expected number of bits is 27 in the example presented
in slide 4.
It is the addition of all the bits times the occurence.

3. What is the naive encoding for the language in slide 5?
1 001
2 100
3 000
4 010
5 011
6 111

4. What is the entropy of this language?
-(6*1/6log1/6)

5. Find an encoding more efficient than the naive encoding for this language.
1 000
2 111
3 0111
4 1000
5 01111
6 10111


6. Why is your encoding more efficient than the naive encoding?

Because since certain probabilites are more likely to be rolled so they don't require as much bandwith .
