Name: Tehreem Syed	
EID:tfs385
CS Login:fatima
Email: tehreemsyed@utexas.edu

CS361 Questions: Week 4

The questionsmarked with a dagger (†) require external research and may be more extensive and time consuming. You don’t have to do them for the assignment but, but do them to increase your competency in the class.

Lecture 53

1. Why is it important for a digital signature to be non reusable?
Because it is possible for someone to strip the signatur eoff and use it for a different document. The signature cannot be detached from the message and reused for another message. The signature should be bound to the document. 

2. Why is it the hash of the message typically signed, rather than the message
itself?
It is because public key is expensive to apply and the message could be really long while the hash is of smaller value. 

3. What assurance does R gain from the interchange on slide 4?
This message tp be encrytped is unforgeable, authetinc, no repudiaed, tamperproof and not reuseable.

Lecture 54

1. What is the importance of certificate authorities?
Much of what happens on-line, particularly e-commerce, dep
ends on establishing a web of trust relationships among the parties in a distributed context. So you want such a format but distributed online.

2. In the example on slide 5, why does X sign the hash of the first message
with its private key?
  BEcause it is less expensive than a public key and is also faster.

3. Why is it necessary to have a hash of Y and Ky?
 Because, it is crucial because you want to check the values wer enot changed or corrupted.

4. What would happen if Z had a public key for X, but it was not trustworthy?
 I cant tell if it really came from Z or an attacker. 


Lecture 55

1. What happens at the root of a chain of trust?
 There is a trusted, impeachable authority mightgain your trust by the role they have .

2. Why does an X.509 certificate include a “validity interval”?
    It is important because if you get an expired certificate you know you dont have to trust and you should not. 

3. What would it mean if the hash and the received value did not match?
   It means that the message is not correct and some attacker was successful in corrupting the chain of trust. 
Lecture 56
1. What are some protocols previously discussed?
Ans. Some protocols previously discussed are Diffiee Hillman a kind of key encyroption protocol. Also one time pad and multi pad. 
2. What may happen if one step of a protocol is ignored?
Ans.The protocol no longer works.

3. Why must the ciphers commute in order to accomplish the task in slide 4?
Ans. Because they need to settle on some information rearding the lock. For encryptions ti happen in either order for the same result. 

4. Describe how an attacker can extract M from the protocol in slide 6.
Ans. If they know either of the message from A or B they can extract it  by xoring it.

5. Describle how an attacker can extract Ka from the protocol in slide 6.
Ans. If they have them message Kb and they Xor it wit h Kb it open Ka .You assume that the attacker has all of the messages that were sent.  By XOR'ing them together, you can get any of M, Ka, or Kb.  That's because if you XOR something with itself, gives 0.  And M XOR 0 is just M. 

6. Describle how an attacker can extract Kb from the protocol in slide 6.
When Ka send back M then Kb can xor Kb with itself and extract teh message.

7. Why are cryptographic protocols difficult to design and easy to get wrong?
Ans. Because, since each step needs to be carried out at ts own time and it involves senders and recievers own keys it is hard for make it secure so that no third party can manipulate it. They act robustly in teh face of very hostile environment of hackers.
  
Lecture 57


1. Explain the importance of protocols in the context of the internet.
  Wwhen you send an email, message online these are protocols.

  2. Explain the importance of cryptographic protocols in the context of the internet.
Cryptographic protocols are communication protocols which are designed to provide security assurances of various kinds, using cryptographic mechanisms. Classic assurances include confidentiality, message integrity, and more recent research includes anonymity assurances. The term "protocol" is used in a wide sense, to include off-line arrangements such as encryption of e-mail messages.

3. What are the assumptions of the protocol in slide 6?
  A knows that it send the message and knows that B recieves it. 
There is a public key infrastructure in place and everyone has other's pribavte key. 

4. What are the goals of the protocol in slide 6?
 A shares with B a secret key K, and each party is authenticated to the other.

 5. Are the goals of the protocol in slide 6 satisfied? Explain.
 Yes, they are. Howevr the primary goal of it not being hacked is not met. 

 6. How is the protocol in slide 6 flawed?
 It is flawed in the sense that if an eavesdropper gets its hand on B's private key it can aceess all the original message. 

 
 Lecture 58

 1. Why is it important to know if a protocol includes unnecessary steps or
messages?
   It is important to know becaus ewith unnecessary steps that are crackable the overhead would be so much. It also gives the attacker to more oppurtunities to find a loophool.

2. Why is it important to know if a protocol encrypts items that could be sent
in the clear?
It is important because then the protocol would get involved in doing something which is not really that important. 

Lecture 59
1. Why might it be difficult to answer what constitutes an attack on a cryptographic
protocol?
It is difficult to answer all questions on a attack because the variables can change and the protocol may run 1000s of time and it is easier for an attacker to break everything because a clever attack might be one which noone has anticipated.
2. Describe potential dangers of a replay attack.
An atatcker who has retained some messages frome arluier runs of teh protocol runs it in such a way that the parties get confused or something bad happpens.
3. Are there attacks where an attacker gains no secret information? Explain.
Yes,Interleaving attack is a kind of such attack where attacker injects spurious messages into a protocol run to disrupt or subvert it.

4. What restrictions are imposed on the attacker?
Nothing really. The designer of a protocol should assume that an attacker may access all of teh traffic and interject his own messages into the flow.

5. Why is it important that protocols are asynchronous?
Because of distributed nature of these systems the protocols are highly asynchronous. It is so because we want that teh prootocol should be designed in such a way that when a party recieves a message , it knows what a message means and how to respond to it. 

Lecture 60
1. Would the Needham-Schroeder protocol work without nonces?
No because then there is no way A could tell B recieved a message or not and whther or not it is an authertic B. 
2. For each step of the NS protocol, answer the two questions on slide 5.
	1. A is saying to S that hey I want to send B a messahe and this is my nonce and need my key. S understands that and sends A back its shared key with S with the message encrypted for B with K's pvt key.
	2. S send A back the original nonce of A, the message that needs to be sent between a and b , the key Kab,also some additional informatin ecrypted by Kb and the entire thing encrupted with A's key.
	A will know that S responded with that it wanted .
	3.A send B the added info send by S. B knows that it is encrypted by its key and it has to open it.
	4. B sends to A its nonce. It is trying to say it recieved A;s message. A on the other hand willl only believe this once it gets it back
	5. A sends back B its nonce Nb-1 to show that it recieved it and B also know it. 

Lecture 61
1. As in slide 5, if A’s key were later changed, after having Kas compromised,
how could A still be impersonated?
I  presume if A's key was changed then the attack would need to compromise Kas again in order to keep impersonating A

2. Is it fair to ask the question of a key being broken?
Yes and no. It depends on how efficient the cryptographic protocol is.

3. How might you address these flaws if you were the protocol designer?
The first flaw can be prevented by having nonces. The second  flaw is where Kas is stolen and someone could impersonate A and be A when communicating with S. Kas is just a key in a symmetric algorithm.  Someone might brute force it, given enough time.So we may prevent it by making it more secure. 

Lecture 62
1. What guarantees does Otway-Rees seem to provide to A and B?
It allows individuals communicating over such a network to prove their identity to each other while also preventing eavesdropping or replay attacks and allowing for the detection of modification.

2. Are there guarantees that Needham-Schroeder provides that Otway-Rees
does not or vice versa?
The guarentees that Needham Shroeder provides is the availbility of nonces. 

3. How could you fix the flawed protocol from slide 4?
The trick is preventing the encryption and decryption steps from being right next to each other.  You can change the protocol to prevent that in a number of ways. Also, by adding nonces. 

Lecture 63

1. Why is the verification of protocols important?
Protocols can be notoriously diﬃcult to get correct. Flaws have been discovered in protocols published many years before.
It would be nice to be able to reason formally about protocol correctness.

2. What is a belief logic?
A belief logic is a formal system for reasoning about beliefs. Any logic consists of a set of logical operators and rules of inference.

3. A protocol is a program; where do you think beliefs come in?
It allows us to infer what principal swithin the protocol shouldwe able to infer from the messages they see. 

Lecture 64

1. What is a modal logic?
Modal logic is a type of formal logic primarily developed in the 1960s that extends classical propositional and predicate logic to include operators expressing modality. Modals—words that express modalities—qualify a statement. 

2. Explain the intuition behind the message meaning inference rule.
 The intutuion is formalizing the patterns if inference when you are reasoning about a protocol. 
eg. If A believes and A and B share a key and A recieves  a message which is ecrypted withthat key then A belives that that message comes form B. 
We want to make our 

3. Explain the intuition behind the nonce verification inference rule.
If A belives that the message it recieves is fresh and it believes that message came from B and B once said X and A blieves B that B belives X. 

4. Explain the intuition behind the jurisdiction inference rule.
If A believes B has jurisdiction over X and A believes B believes X, then A believes X. That I am entitled to belivee somebody how is expert in that matter, 

5. What is idealization and why is it needed?
Idealization is tos tare at the statement of teh protocol and see hwat the protocol is trying to accomplish and what the reciever is bound to believe.

Lecture 65

1. Why do you think plaintext is omitted in a BAN idealization?
One purpose of idealization is to omit parts of the message that do not contribute to the beliefs of the recipients. In BAN all plaintext is omitted since it can be forged.

2. Some idealized steps seem to refer to beliefs that will happen later in the
protocol. Why would that be?
The point of view of idealization is the the protocol has run and now you're asking, in hindsight, what was the purpose of each step.

3. One benefit of a BAN proof is that it exposes assumptions. Explain that.
One of the great benefits of doing this logical formalization forces you tow rite down assumption and shows how to carry out the proof and it is informative.
