Lecture 53
1. So that the signature cannot be detached and reused in another message.
2. Because public key encryption is expensive the message may be arbitrarily long but the has is a fixed finite short value. 
3. It puts S's signature on the message so that R can verify that the message is from S. It also has the desired properties in the sense that it is unforgeable, authentic, has no repudiation, tamperproof and not reusable. 

Lecture 54
1. It is a way for one party vouching for a binding between an identity and a public key.
2. To certify the message so that Z can later verify by using X's private key.
3. By recomputing the hash, Z can compare it to the hash it receives and this way Z can verify that the message was not corrupted or changed. 
4. He could have someone else certify X in the same way or the binding may not be valid.

Lecture 55
1. The root must be some unimpeachable authority and they are the ones that initially sign the certificate that can be chained down. 
2. It shows how long the certificate is valid for.
3. It means that the message or content has been corrupted and changed and it is not valid. 

Lecture 56
1. RSA public key pair, PKI, X.509.
2. The content could be obtain by unwanted entities.
3. In order to reach inside the encryption, we need the ciphers to commute. 
4. By getting all 3 messages, he can XOR messages 2 and 3 to get Ka and the XOR that with the original to get M.
5. By XORing the 2nd and 3rd message. 
6. XOR 1st and 2nd message.
7. There is a lot of potential for flaws. 

Lecture 57
1. A protocol is a structure dialogue among two or more parties in a distributed context controlling the syntax, semantics, and synchronization of communication, and designed to accomplish a communication-related function.
2. A cryptographic  protocol is a protocol using cryptographic mechanisms to accomplish some security-related function.
3. That there is a public key infrastructure in place and that each of them has a reliable version of each other's public key. 
4. A shares with B a secret key K, and each party is authenticated to the other.
5. Yes.
6. 

Lecture 58
1. Since there is a "temporal" aspect to the protocols, the receiver needs to figure out what step he is in to figure out the protocol. Reducing the steps can make it more efficient.
2. This could help reduce some steps if the messages didn't need to be sent through this protocol.

Lecture 59
1. An attack may be one that someone never thought of. 
2. In a replay attack, an attacker records messages and replays them at a later time. He can interject them into the flow to confuse the parties.
3. 
