Chad Custodio
cgc735
chadcus@gmail.com
aitan791

Lecture 66
1. The closest you're likely to get to military-grade encryption.
2. He had a strong distrust of the government.
3. It seems like it does from the stories presented.
4. Because it is good to keep things updated and maintained. 

Lecture 67
1. You create a message and then hash the value. You then sign with your private key to send to the receiver. The receiver will then use your public key to verify the signiture and generate a hash code for M to compare with the decrypted hash code.
2. You generate a message and key. You then encrypt the message with the key and then encrypt the key with the receivers public key. The receiver uses his private key to recover the session key and then use the session key to decrypt the message.
3. Basically combing both step together. Authentication to the original message and confidentiality to the resulting message.

Lecture 68.
1. Compression, email compatibility, and segmentation.
2. To save bandwidth.
3. You don't want the signiture to depend upon the compression algorithm.
4. It takes a standard set of 3 octet and turns it into 4 ASCII characters. It makes things easier to read.
5. Helps to reduce the size of messages that are too large.

Lecture 69
1. Session, public, private, passphrase-based
2. They should not be guessable and high entropy.
3. From two n/2-bit blocks from previous session based on keystrokes and keystroke timing. These are then encrypted and combined with the previous key.
4. Generate a large number and test for primality.
5. With a passphrase. So PGP knows it is you from the passphrase.

Lecture 70
1. Generate an ID that is the last 64-bits of the key.
2. Keep your own private keys and the information for those keys. Public keys, key id, time stamp, user id
3. Public keys with the people you want to send information with. key id, time stamp, user id
4. Use the Key ID field in the session key component of the message as an index.
5. Shows the extent to which PGP trusts that this is a valid public key.
6. Owner issues a signed key revocation certificate.

Lecture 71
1. The consumer is basically blocked/disrupted from the communication while the producer will get offered/requested too many services for the server to handle.
2. The client will send a SYN packet and will be sent back a SYN/ACK packet. But the connection will be left open because they will not receive the ACK.
3. Increase the server queue size, Shorten time-out period, filter suspicious packets.

Lecute 72
1. Because it detects and blocks certain patterns of identifiers in the request stream.
2. Detection is about analyzing the traffic problems and the prevention is trying to block attempted attacks.
3. Over-provisioning the networks- having too many servers to be overwhelmed
filtering attack packets- distinguish the attack packets.
slow down processing- pretty much self explainatory
Speak-up solution- request additional traffic from all requestors.

Lecture 73
1. False negative has a genuine attack that is not detected and false positive has harmless behavior classified as an attack. Depending on the scenario, one can be worse than the other.
2. Accurate is if you can detect all genuine attack and precise is where there is no legitimate behavior is classified as an attack.
3. Because you are only cover one or the other, making it easy to get one or the other by reporting everything as an attack or not reporting them.
4. Based off the occurence pattern of attackers it will flag something to be malicious.

Lecture 74
1. It attacked unpatched machines.
2. It used a static seed in its random number generator. The worm spread slowly. The IP address for whitehouse.gov was changed.
3. It resided in the volitile memory of the machine. You disinfect by rebooting but can be reinfected.
4. It had a random generated seed.

Lecture 75
1. The string code red. Everything else was different.
2. To make sure that there is no way to easily get rid of it.
3. It opens a backdoor to propogate the machine later.
4. The worm will keep circulating because it will not be stopped from the large number of unpatched machines.
5. We are good at patching out machines.

Lecture 76
1. So nobody can just come in and try to perform bad actions.
2. It is just creating a methodology to see what you want from the evaluations
3. So things wont be too obvious.
4. Level 1- basic security
Level 2- improved physical security, tamper-evident packaging.
Level 3- strong tamper- resistance
Level 4- complete envelope of protection including immediate zeroing.

Lecture 77
1. Methodology for applying criteria in a common way.
2. Something acceptable here should be acceptable somewhere else at a certain level.
3. 
4. Protection profile is a file that sets implementation for category products and security target is specific for one.

Lecture 78
1. Prevent someone broadcasting and then destroying an ID tag.
2. To make sure that a tag is attached. Makes sure the crew is trustworthy. Keep and access control. Check that the data transfer is complete and then back it up.
3. Make sure that all threats have a way to be counteracted.

Lecture 79
1. To makes sure that nobody that isn't authorized will be able to perform bad actions on the system by making a number of possible threats.
2. It is a lot stronger.

Lecture 80
1. They are evaluations under the Common Criteria targets for specific levels. They are used to show if and how they will succeed.
2. The person running the protection profils
3. Because they become more formal
4. No because they need a certifying authority to look over your products.
5. It is really expensive

