Holden Smith
EID: hrs534
CS login: holden
email: holden.smith08@gmail.com

Lecture 66:

1. PGP stands for Pretty Good Privacy which is a crytography concept that uses the best available algorithms and that is easy to use.
2. Zimmerman was motivated by his strong distrust of the government and his beleif that everyone had the right to absolute privacy.
3. Yes, because ti uses the stongest publicly available algorithms and is widely available to users.
4. For help in implementation of the software and guaranteed support for updates to it.

Lecture 67:

1. PGP authenticates by sending a the hash of a message signed by the sender's private key. The receiver decrypts the hash and compares it to its own generated hash of the message to confirm authenticity.
2. The PGP confidentiality protocol works by encrypting a message with a random session key. That session key is then encrypted with the receiver's public key and sent with the encrypted message. This ensures that only the intended receiver can read a message.
3. Both of the above may be combined to achieve confidentiality and authenticity. So, apply authentication to the message and then apply the confidentiality steps before sending.

Lecture 68:

1. Other service of PGP include compression, email compatibility and segmentation.
2. Compression is needed to strengthen the encryption because compression reduces redundancy in a messages.
3. You sign a message before compression so that the signature does not rely on whichever compression algorithm is used, since all compression algorithms behave slightly differently.
4. They must be converted t radix-64 because some email systems do not know how to handle raw bit streams. They must first be formatted into a series of characters.
5. Since email systems often limit message size, long messages must be sent in segments.

Lecture 69:

1. The four kinds of keys are: session keys, public keys, private keys and passphrase-based keys.
2. Session keys must only be associated with a single message and they must be used only once.
3. The key is generated by sending a user's random keystrokes through an encryption algorithm including the timing of the keystrokes to add extra randomness.
4. To create a new RSA key, a large (>200 bit) odd number is generated and tested for primality. This process is repeated until a large prime number is found.
5. The user chooses a passphrase which is used to create a 160-bit hash code using the SHA-1 hash. The first 128 bits of this hash are then used to encrypt the private key using the CAST-128 algorithm.

Lecture 70:

1. A key ring data structure is used to verify that which public key a user receives a message with.
2. A user's private key ring is a table of rows containing: the timestamp, key ID, public key, private key and the user's ID
3. A user's public key is a table of rows containing: a timestamp, key ID, public key, and the user ID.
4. PGP retrieves the receiver's encrypted private key from the ring using the Key ID. PGP then asks for the passphrase to get the private key. PGP then verifies the session key and decrypts the message.
5. The legitimacy field indicates the extent to which PGP trusts that this is a vald public key for this user.
6. The owner of the key sends a signed revocation certificate and the recipients are expected to update their public key rings.

Lecture 71:

1. The consumer problem is when the attacker logically blocks communication between the client and the service. The producer problem is when an attacker requests so many services that the server is overwhelmed. Producer problems are more common because they are simpler to implement.
2. A syn attack is when a send sends many TCP handshake requests with false return addresses so that the server continuously waits for the reply on all of these false addresses.
3. The first three solutions are not ideal because they also limit the usability of the service to legitimate customers.

Lecture 72:

1. Packet filtering works well because it prevents the malicious requests from even reaching the server and causing DOS.
2. IDS analyzes current patterns in the network traffic to find the malicious requests whereas IPS more aggressively blocks requests as an attack intensifies.
3. The four different solutions are over-provisioning the network (have extra servers), filtering attack packets (distinguish between malicious and regular packets), slow down processing, speak-up (request additional legitimate traffic, since mailicious attackers are maxxed out).

Lecture 73:

1. A false positive is a negtive result that is mistaken for a positive result. A false negative is an attack that is mistaken for normal traffic. A false negative is more dangerous because it allows the attck to begin undetected.
2. An accurate IDS detects all genuine attacks. A precise IDS never reports legitimate behavior as an attack.
3. It is easy to do either accuracy or precision, but not both.
4. The base rate fallacy shows that most of the detected attacks are false positives. It is relevant to an IDS because it means that it has to work extra hard to find legitimate attacks.

Lecture 74:

1. 
