Name: Colt Whaley
EID: cww688	
CS Login: cwhaley
Email: coltwhaley@yahoo.com

Lecture 66
1. Pretty good privacy
2. He distrusted the government and believed everyone deserved privacy
3. As of 2007, the government finds it "nearly impossible" to decrypt
4. Pass of liability and don't have to worry about setting up

Lecture 67
1. Sender creates message M and hashes it. Signs hash with private key
prepends the result. Receiver uses public key to recover the hash then compares
their hash to the decrypted one.
2. Sender creates message M and session key K. M encrypted with K. K encrypted
with receiver's public key and prepended to M. Receiver used private key to
get session key. Use that to decrypt the message
3. Apply the authentication to original message, then the confidentiality to
result.

Lecutre 68
1. Compression, email compatibility, segmentation
2. strengthens the encryption since compression reduces redundancies
3. Signature doesn't depend on the compression algorithm this way
4. Maps the 8-bit octets to ascii characters. Otherwise email systems would
choke on bitstrings they'd interpret as control commands.
5. Messages often too long for a single email so they must be reconstructed
after the whole message is sent

Lecture 69
1. Session, public, private, and passphrase-based
2. used once and generated for each new message
3. uses the previous session key and two n/2bit blocks generated based on
user keystrokes, including timing. They are encrypted using an algorithm
and combined to create the new key.
4. Randomly generate odds of sufficient size. Then test for primality
5. user-selected passphrase. ensures only the user knows his/her private key

Lecture 70
1. The least-significant 64bits are sned with the message(key id)
2. timestamp, key id, public key, private key, user id
3. timestamp, key id, public key, user id
4. strip key id from session key, enter passphrase, use session key to decrypt
5. determine trust of user/key
6. Owner issues a signed key revocation certificate. recipients update public
key rings

Lecture 71
1. consumer distrupts their ability to communicate with service,
producer disrupts servers ability to communicate with client
2. overwhelm server with requests then not respond
3. too much resources, disallow connections to slower clients, hard to determine

Lecture 72
1. reads requests coming from similar ip's
2. ids is after an attack, ips works to prevent them
3. get more servers, filter packets, slow down processing, request extra 
traffic from requestors

Lecture 73
1. false negative = genuine attack not detected
   false positive = harmless behavior misclassified as attack
   False positives restrict genuine traffic and can distrupt workflow, but
   negatives can allow a nasty attack to occur undetected
2. accurate = detects all attacks
   precise = no false positives
3. You can just flag everything as positive and its accurate, or flag nothing
and its precise.
4. probability a positive request is false.

Lecture 74
1. Infect random machines then DoS www1.whitehouse.gov
2. static seed and memory residency.
3. it just sat in memory, not on the disk so it would be lost on reboots
4. It used a random seed

Lecture 75
1. same exploit, had string "CodeRedII" in source
2. To ensure it's survival
3. create zombies for attacks
4. exploits that have been fixed are still problems because user base is
ignorant
5. People don't update their computers, ever. Especially in Asia

Lecture 76
1. Typical users don't understand anything
2. requirements for functionality, assurance requirements, methodology to
meet those requirements, measure the trustworthiness of system.
3. More sensitive information requires more intensive clearances
4. weakest, weak, strong, strongest

Lecture 77
1. a centralized secure system evaluation criteria
2. adopted by 26 countries
3. allows customizations based on locality of system
4. PP = products that satisfy the CC
   ST = document containing requirements of products by CC
   
Lecture 78
1. identify trash containers
2. determines all the possible vunerabilities and ways to combat them
3. mapping from threats/assumptions to security objectives/requirements

Lecture 79
1. Product for managing user access privileges store in directory services
2. ST is a specific system or class of systems submitted for eval

Lecture 80
1. determines the rigor of development and testing
2. security companies trusted by the corresponding government
3. the higher on the list, the more intense the proof needs to be which
becomes harder to get an agreeable concensus
4.  no, then they could just say they did it.
5. it may be unclear from the code if it was done incorrectly and may
implement something else