Howard Dennis hed287
Homework #2

Lecture 17
1. If a computer system complies with the BLP model, does it necessarily
comply with non-interference? Why or why not?

Yes, because the low cannot read anything the high has.

2. What would the NI policy be for a BLP system with subjects: A at (Secret:
Crypto), B at (Secret: Nuclear)?

Subject A cannot read anything outside the crypto category, and nothing higher in security than secret. The same for B, except the category is Nuclear.

3. Can covert channels exist in an NI policy? Why or why not?

Yes, because the sender can be low and the receiver can be high.

4. If the NI policy is A- > B, in a BLP system what combinations of the
levels “high” and “low” could A and B have?

A: high B:high
B: high A: low
B: low A: low

Lecture 18
1. Why do NI policies better resemble metapolicies than policies?

They are less possible and generally vague. Abstract

2. What would be L’s view of the following actions: h1, l1, h2, h3, . . . , hj,
l2, l3, . . . , lk

All actions of h.

3. What is dif?cult about proving NI for realistic systems?

All systems use some kind of covert channel anyway.

Lecture 19
1. Explain the importance of integrity in various contexts.

A journal of high integrity printing low integrity information would be a case of miss-information.

2. Why would a company or individual opt to purchase commercial software
rather than download a similar, freely available version?

It has higher integrity, thus is more trustworthy.

3. Explain the difference between separation of duty and separation of function.

Duty is required of high integrity subjects, while function is for all subjects.

4. What is the importance of auditing in integrity contexts?

Those of high integrity are needed for auditing. The higher the integrity the better.

5. What are the underlying ideas that raise the integrity concerns of Lipner?

That a commercial environment requires integrity amoung many groups


6. Name a common scenario where integrity would be more important than
confidentiality.

Journalism.

Lecture 20
1. Give examples of information that is highly reliable with little sensitivity
and information that is not so highly reliable but with greater sensitivity.

Government nuclear launch codes and what Nichole Kidman had for lunch.

2. Explain the dominates relationships for each row in the table on slide 4.

The security levels are what dominates, like in BLP

3. Construct the NI policy for the integrity metapolicy.

Simply don’t allow writing to go up.

4. What does it mean that confidentiality and integrity are “orthogonal issues?”

The *-property is opposite in integrity.

Lecture 21
1. Why is Biba Integrity called the “dual” of the BLP model?

It is the exact opposite of BLP

2. Why in the ACM on slide 5 is the entry for Subj3 - Obj3 empty?

The need-to-know labels don’t coincide.

3. If a subject satisfies confidentiality requirements but fails integrity requirements
of an object, can the subject access the object?

If both Biba and BLP policies are in place, no.

Lecture 22
1. What is the assumption about subjects in Biba’s low water mark policy?

They are smart enough not to read low integrity information.

2. Are the subjects considered trustworthy?

No.

3. Does the Ring policy make some assumption about the subject that the
LWM policy does not?

Yes, that they are smart enough to filter low level information.

4. Are the subjects considered trustworthy?

Yes

Lecture 23
1. Are the SD and ID categories in Lipner’s model related to each other?

Yes

2. Why is it necessary for system controllers to have to ability to downgrade?

In order to write up

3. Can system controllers modify development code/test data?

Yes

4. What form of tranquility underlies the downgrade ability?

Weak

Lecture 24
1. What is the purpose of the four fundamental concerns of Clark and Wilson?

To maintain consistency in objects.

2. What are some possible examples of CDIs in a commercial setting?

A user withdrawing from a bank, and his transactions being marked.

3. What are some possible examples of UDIs in a commercial setting?

If there’s candy in the dish at the entrance.

4. What is the difference between certification and enforcement rules?

The certification makes sure that you are a legitimate user before you can interact with the system under the enforcement rules.

5. Give an example of a permission in a commercial setting.

Being allowed to use a bank account

Lecture 25
1. Why would a consultant hired by American Airlines potentially have a
breach of confidentiality if also hired by United Airlines?

They know info of a competing company and can give info to other.

2. In the example conflict classes, if you accessed a file from GM, then subsequently
accessed a file from Microsoft, will you then be able to access
another file from GM?

Yes, they don’t conflict.

3. Following the previous question, what companies’ files are available for
access according to the simple security rule?

Those whom you work for, and those outside the conflict class.

4. What differences separate the Chinese Wall policy from the BLP model?

The concern is not security levels, but conflicted interests.

Lecture 26
1. What benefits are there in associating permissions with roles, rather than
subjects?

Easier to manage, levels are grouped rather than individualized.

2. What is the difference between authorized roles and active roles?

Authorized roles define what active roles a person can take.

3. What is the difference between role authorization and transaction authorization?

Role authorization defines what roles one can take on, and the other defines what transactions one can do at that role.

4. What disadvantages do standard access control policies have when compared
to RBAC?

They have levels at which one can do many transactions.

Lecture 27
1. Why would one not want to build an explicit ACM for an access control
system?

In real systems, most subjects don;t have access to most objects.

2. Name, in order, the ACM alternatives for storing permissions with objects,
storing permissions with subjects and computing permissions on the fly.

Access control list, capability-based system, maintaining a set of rules

Lecture 28
1. What must be true for the receiver to interpret the answer to a “yes” or “no”
question?

He must have shared knowledge of the sender’s encoding scheme.

2. Why would one want to quantify the information content of a message?

In order to see the bandwidth of the message along the channel.

3. Why must the sender and receiver have some shared knowledge and an
agreed encoding scheme?

They will not be able to communicate through the stream.

4. Why wouldn’t the sender want to transmit more data than the receiver needs
to resolve uncertainty?

Because it takes up bandwidth.

5. If the receiver knows the answer to a question will be “yes,” how many bits
of data quantify the information content? Explain.

One, because it’s a binary response.

Lecture 29
1. How much information is contained in each of the first three messages from
slide 2?

n-bits, 4-bits, 7-bits

2. Why does the amount of information contained in “The attack is at dawn” depend on the receiver’s level of uncertainty?

It can be anything from binary (dawn or night) or multiple (any time of the day).

3. How many bits of information must be transmitted for a sender to send one
of exactly 16 messages? Why?

4

4. How much information content is contained in a message from a space of
256 messages?

8 bits

5. Explain why very few circumstances are ideal, in terms of sending information
content.

They have to match with a solid log base two number.

Lecture 30
1. Explain the difference between the two connotations of the term “bit.”

One is discrete, one is continuous.

2. Construct the naive encoding for 8 possible messages.

000 = q, 001 = w, 010 = e, 011 = r, 100 = t, 101 = y, 110 = a, 111 = s

3. Explain why the encoding on slide 5 takes 995 + (5 * 5) bits.

The “10” message requires one bit, while the others require 5 bits.

4. How can knowing the prior probabilities of messages lead to a more efficient
encoding?

You can make it to where certain encodings are of less bits.

5. Construct an encoding for 4 possible messages that is worse than the naive
encoding.

000 = p, 001 = w, 010 = s, 111 = t

6. What are some implications if it is possible to find an optimal encoding?

Lower bandwidth.

Lecture 31
1. Name a string in the language consisting of positive, even numbers.

222

2. Construct a non-prefix-free encoding for the possible rolls of a 6-sided die.

0001 = 1, 001 = 2, 010 = 3, 011 = 4, 100 = 5, 101 = 6

3. Why is it necessary for an encoding to be uniquely decodable?

So there is no ambiguity to the message.

4. Why is a lossless encoding scheme desirable?

To maintain the integrity of the message.

5. Why doesn’t Morse code satisfy our criteria for encodings?

It has prefixes.

Lecture 32
1. Calculate the entropy of an 8-sided, fair die (all outcomes are equally likely).

log8

2. If an unbalanced coin is 4 times more likely to yield a tail than a head, what
is the entropy of the language?

h = -(4/5log4/5 + 1/5log1/5)

3. Why is knowing the entropy of a language important?

To know the least amount of bits needed to encode, which gives you better efficiency on more frequent numbers.

Lecture 33
1. Explain the reasoning behind the expectations presented in slide 3.

It’s just the probability times the number of flips.

2. Explain why the total expected number of bits is 27 in the example presented
in slide 4.

It multiplies the probability by the number of times to get the average of each result and adds the averages.

3. What is the naive encoding for the language in slide 5?

Three bits per message.

4. What is the entropy of this language?

.1441

5. Find an encoding more efficient than the naive encoding for this language.

One bit for 1 and 2, two for 3 and 4, three for 5 and 6.

6. Why is your encoding more efficient than the naive encoding?

It ultimately uses less bits.
