NAME: Mason Hopkins
EID: mh33346
CS LOGIN: masonah
Email: masonah@cs.utexas.edu

CS361 Questions: Week 2

These questions relate to Modules 4, 5, 6 and 7. Type your answers and submit
them via email to Dr. Young by 5pm on Thursday, June 19.
The questions marked with a dagger (†) require external research and may be more
extensive and time consuming. You don’t have to do them for the assignment,
but you may want to do them to increase your knowledge of the subject matter.

LECTURE 17

1. If a computer system complies with the BLP model, does it necessarily
comply with non-interference? Why or why not?

>Not necessarily, because BLP is transitive while some NI policies can be non-transitive (such as a firewall).

2. What would the NI policy be for a BLP system with subjects: A at (Secret:
Crypto), B at (Secret: Nuclear)?

>There would be no interference between A and B as neither dominates the other.

3. Can covert channels exist in an NI policy? Why or why not?

>No, because if one channel is able to communicate in any way with another when the security policy disallows it, then the system is not an NI system.

4. If the NI policy is A− > B, in a BLP system what combinations of the
levels “high” and “low” could A and B have?

>A low and B high, or A low and B low.

LECTURE 18

1. Why do NI policies better resemble metapolicies than policies?

>Because it shows a broad, obvious view of how the information should flow within the system, which should satisfy and resemble the metapolicy.

2. What would be L’s view of the following actions: h1, l1, h2, h3, . . . , hj,

>L’s view would be only: l1

3. What is difficult about proving NI for realistic systems?

>Realistic systems have many potential interferences and are very common.

LECTURE 19:

1. Explain the importance of integrity in various contexts.

>Validity and correctness of certain information. One context could be research articles, you would want the information to come from trusted sources such as scholars or a panel of experts rather than an opinion piece. Wikipedia is another example of the importance of integrity as it can be edited or created by many, so information might not be as valid as you want.

2. Why would a company or individual opt to purchase commercial software
rather than download a similar, freely available version?

>The commercial product may have more integrity than a free version of the software.

3. Explain the difference between separation of duty and separation of function.

>Separation of Duty may be that other subjects are required to be a part of the process to insure that the information being modified is checked by multiple subjects, and Separation of Function is to keep one subject from performing and writing the entirity of information or process, as that one subject may have incorrect information, thus bringing another subject into the process.

4. What is the importance of auditing in integrity contexts?

>It is important to have a means of recoverability and accountability when it comes to integrity, to be able to back up information incase of tampering or loss.

5. What are the underlying ideas that raise the integrity concerns of Lipner?

>Users use existing production software and may be unaware of the software’s level of integrity and the programmers of the software developed the software in a context that may not match that of the users’.

CS361 Questions: Week 2 2

6. Name a common scenario where integrity would be more important than
confidentiality.

>A professor may ask a TA to put the time and place for a final up on their website; confidentiality is not important, but the validity of the information is of high importance.

LECTURE 20

1. Give examples of information that is highly reliable with little sensitivity
and information that is not so highly reliable but with greater sensitivity.

>Highly reliable with little sensitivity: Statistics from ESPN.
>Not highly reliable with greater sensitivity: A rumor that you’re going to be fired from your job.

2. Explain the dominates relationships for each row in the table on slide 4.

>Row 1: Expert in physics dominates a student in physics because of the greater expertise and experience in the field.
>Row 2: Novice in anything does not dominate Expert level.
>Row 3: A student with any label dominates a Novice of no label as novice is considered a lower level and an empty set is a subset of a non empty set.

3. Construct the NI policy for the integrity metapolicy.

> High integrity →low integrity

4. What does it mean that confidentiality and integrity are “orthogonal issues?”

>It means the concerns and issues of confidentiality and integrity aren’t parallel based on context, as the flow and information for confidentiality and integrity are generally opposite.

LECTURE 21

1. Why is Biba Integrity called the “dual” of the BLP model?

>It is called the “dual” because it’s flow of information is essentially the opposite of the BLP model.

2. Why in the ACM on slide 5 is the entry for Subj3 - Obj3 empty?

>Neither the object nor subject dominate eachother.

3. If a subject satisfies confidentiality requirements but fails integrity require-
ments of an object, can the subject access the object?

>If the system is using both BLP and Biba then no, since it fails integrity it will not be able to access the object to keep “bad” information from flowing to the subject.


LECTURE 22

1. What is the assumption about subjects in Biba’s low water mark policy?

>That the subjects generally have lower integrity in this system, as the validity of their information may be compromised by lower integrity objects.

2. Are the subjects considered trustworthy?

>No, as it focuses on lowering the integrity label of the subjects based on the information they have read. Labels essentially only move downward, except when reset.

3. Does the Ring policy make some assumption about the subject that the
LWM policy does not?

>It makes the assumption that the subject’s information is more reliable than any of the information below it.

4. Are the subjects considered trustworthy?

>They are considered generally trustworthy as they are able to use any information they need and are able to filter information and write to any object below.

LECTURE 23

1. Are the SD and ID categories in Lipner’s model related to each other?

>They are as those with both categories are developers that are able to develop, modify, and read programs.

2. Why is it necessary for system controllers to have to ability to downgrade?

>As programs are finished being developed they must be able to be downgraded to be put into production.

3. Can system controllers modify development code/test data?

>Yes because they are able to modify at their level or below by meeting both BLP and Biba requirements.

4. What form of tranquility underlies the downgrade ability?

>The downgrade ability opposes Strong tranquility but is necessary.

LECTURE 24

1. What is the purpose of the four fundamental concerns of Clark and Wilson?

>To promote consistency among the various components of the system state.

2. What are some possible examples of CDIs in a commercial setting?

>The bank account and balance information of a customer.

3. What are some possible examples of UDIs in a commercial setting?

>User profile information.

4. What is the difference between certification and enforcement rules?

>Certification is based on the preservation of integrity, and enforcement is based on authorization of procedures.

5. Give an example of a permission in a commercial setting.

>A user is able to update the bank account information of a customer.

LECTURE 25

1. Why would a consultant hired by American Airlines potentially have a
breach of confidentiality if also hired by United Airlines?

>They may purposefully or accidentally disclose information on AA to UA.

2. In the example conflict classes, if you accessed a file from GM, then sub-
sequently accessed a file from Microsoft, will you then be able to access
another file from GM?

>Yes because you are not accessing any file from a conflicting class.

3. Following the previous question, what companies’ files are available for
access according to the simple security rule?

>GM, Bank of America, Wells Fargo, Citicorp, Microsoft.

4. What differences separate the Chinese Wall policy from the BLP model?

>It allows for more free access to various categories for objects to start with, but constrain eventually based on their history of accesses.

LECTURE 26

1. What benefits are there in associating permissions with roles, rather than subject?

>More than one user can fill a role to perform transaction instead of only one subject.

2. What is the difference between authorized roles and active roles?

>Authorized roles are roles that a user can fill at various times, and active roles are roles that a user previously occupies.

3. What is the difference between role authorization and transaction authorization?

>Role authorization means that the subject must be in a role that the subject is authorized to be in. Transaction authorization means that that subject’s active role allows for that transaction to take place.

4. What disadvantages do standard access control policies have when com-
pared to RBAC?

>In RBAC a subject can have multiple roles and is able to fill in to perform certain transactions when needed. (Bank president might also act as a teller)
Much more flexible than SAC: RBAC is easy to administer roles, permissions are appropriate to organization, RBAC recognizes a subject’s various functions, subjects can change roles without having to change identities.

LECTURE 27

1. Why would one not want to build an explicit ACM for an access control system?

>An ACM for a large number of subjects and objects can be a burden on memory when the rules can be enforced implicitly.

2. Name, in order, the ACM alternatives for storing permissions with objects,
storing permissions with subjects and computing permissions on the fly.

>Rules such as “dominates”
>Access control list
>capability-based system





LECTURE 28

1. What must be true for the receiver to interpret the answer to a “yes” or “no” question?

>To know what is question being answered by either a yes or no. The receiver must know what the 0 or 1 represents in terms of the information being transmitted.

2. Why would one want to quantify the information content of a message?

>So the receiver knows how much information it is going to receive from the sender and to better know how to interperet it.

3. Why must the sender and receiver have some shared knowledge and an
agreed encoding scheme?

>If they didn’t the receiver wouldn’t know how to interperet the data it receives from the sender.

4. Why wouldn’t the sender want to transmit more data than the receiver needs
to resolve uncertainty?

>It would create noise that the sender would have to sift through for its desired information which may cause miscommunication.

5. If the receiver knows the answer to a question will be “yes,” how many bits
of data quantify the information content? Explain.

>It only takes one bit to quantify a yes, because yes and no can be represented by a 1 or a 0.

LECTURE 29

1. How much information is contained in each of the first three messages from slide 2?

>n-bits for an n-bit binary number
>four bits for a single decimal digit
>up to seven bits for a two digit decimal numer

2. Why does the amound of information contained in “The attack is at dawn”
depend on the receiver’s level of uncertainty?

>It depends on how many variables are within the sentence. Dawn or dusk = one bit, but if time/day or anything else was uncertain it would cost more.

3. How many bits of information must be transmitted for a sender to send one
of exactly 16 messages? Why?

>Four bits of information because they can represent 0-15.

4. How much information content is contained in a message from a space of
256 messages?

>7 bits because it can represent up to the number 269

5. Explain why very few circumstances are ideal, in terms of sending information content.

>Both sides must have an agreed-upon encoding and there has to be as little noise and uncertainty as possible between the two channels.

LECTURE 30

1. Explain the difference between the two connotations of the term “bit.”

>It can mean either a discrete digit (bit1) or a continuous quantity of information (bit2).

2. Construct the naive encoding for 8 possible messages.

>000, 001, 010, 011, 100, 101, 110, 111

3. Explain why the encoding on slide 5 takes 995 + (5 * 5) bits.

>99.5% of the messages only require 1 bit (0) and the last 5 require 5 bits.

4. How can knowing the prior probabilities of messages lead to a more efficient encoding?

>You can use the percent chance of a message to figure out the least number of bits to use for the most likely messages to be more efficient.

5. Construct an encoding for 4 possible messages that is worse than the naïve encoding.

>Using an 8-bit string for 4 possible messages: 00000000, 00000001, 00000010, 00000011

6. What are some implications if it is possible to find an optimal encoding?
>More efficient information through covert channels.
LECTURE 31

1. Name a string in the language consisting of positive, even numbers.

>”24682”

2. Construct a non-prefix-free encoding for the possible rolls of a 6-sided die.

>0000, 0001, 0010, 0011, 0100, 0101

3. Why is it necessary for an encoding to be uniquely decodable?

>So is no uncertainty when it comes to the decoding procedure of a message.

4. Why is a lossless encoding scheme desirable?

>So there isn’t a loss of important information.

5. Why doesn’t Morse code satisfy our criteria for encodings?

>

1. Calculate the entropy of an 8-sided, fair die (all outcomes are equally likely).

>

2. If an unbalanced coin is 4 times more likely to yield a tail than a head, what

is the entropy of the language?

3. Why is knowing the entropy of a language important?

1. Explain the reasoning behind the expectations presented in slide 3.

CS361 Questions: Week 2 6

2. Explain why the total expected number of bits is 27 in the example presented

3. What is the naive encoding for the language in slide 5?

4. What is the entropy of this language?

5. Find an encoding more efficient than the naive encoding for this language.

6. Why is your encoding more efficient than the naive encoding?

