CS361 Questions: Week 2
These questions relate to Modules 4, 5, 6 and 7. Type your answers and submit them via email to Dr. Young by 5pm on Thursday, June 19. The questions marked with a dagger (†) require external research and may be more extensive and time consuming. You don’t have to do them for the assignment but you may want to do them to increase your knowledge of the subject matter.


Lecture 17
1. If a computer system complies with the BLP model, does it necessarily comply with non-interference? Why or why not?  No, because a specific action taken by the high-level subject might interfere with the view of the low-level subject. This way a bit might travel from high to low level.
2. What would the NI policy be for a BLP system with subjects: A at (Secret: Crypto), B at (Secret: Nuclear)? A may not interfere with B and B may not interfere with A
3. Can covert channels exist in an NI policy? Why or why not? Not really because the whole point of having an NI policy is to get rid of covert channels
4. If the NI policy is A −> B, in a BLP system what combinations of the levels “high” and “low” could A and B have? B is a high-level subject and A is a low-level one, A and B are both high-level subjects, and A and B are both low-level subjects


Lecture 18
1. Why do NI policies better resemble meta-policies than policies?
NI policies are not as low-level and specific as regular policies. They are much more high-level and general so they resemble a general purpose in the system, aka, a meta-policy 
2. What would be L’s view of the following actions: 
h1, l1, h2, h3, . . . , hj → l1
l2, l3, . . . , lk → l2, l3, . . . , lk
3. What is difficult about proving NI for realistic systems? In real systems there really are many interferences and so if you made the view that inclusive, it would be impossible to ever prove that it was not interfering.


Lecture 19
1. Explain the importance of integrity in various contexts. Integrity is important in several different aspects from the reliability of the information you read on newspapers to changing students’ grades at Universities. 
2. Why would a company or individual opt to purchase commercial software rather than download a similar, freely available version? The level of trust they may deposit on the commercial software might be higher than the one deposited on the free version.
3. Explain the difference between separation of duty and separation of function. Separation of duty means that more than person are required in order to complete a critical function, while separation of function means that one person cannot perform complementary roles in a critical function since there might by a conflict of interest.
4. What is the importance of auditing in integrity contexts? If something bad does happen you can go back and see whose fault it was. You may probably be able to rollback as well.
5. What are the underlying ideas that raise the integrity concerns of Lipner? Mainly the separation of duties. For example, tellers at banks use software, which shouldn’t have been developed by them since there might by a conflict of interest.
6. Name a common scenario where integrity would be more important than confidentiality. In a university environment, it is more important that the students cannot change their grade than whether or not they can see them.


Lecture 20
1. Give examples of information that is highly reliable with little sensitivity and information that is not so highly reliable but with greater sensitivity. Student’s grades are highly reliable and with little sensitivity to the students. Information you read on the news might be on sensitive subjects but the source of information might not be so reliable.
2. Explain the “dominates” relationships for each row in the table on slide 4. The category ‘expert’ is >= ‘student’ and ‘Physics’ is a superset of itself so Label 1 dominates Label 2. The category ‘Novice’ is not >= than ‘Expert’ so Label 1 does not dominate Label 2. Student is >= than Novice and Art is a superset of the empty set, so Label 1 dominates Label 2.
3. Construct the NI policy for the integrity meta-policy. Having subjects A and B, where A is a highly-trusted-for-writing subject and B isn’t, A is allowed to interfere with B, not viceversa. 
4. What does it mean that confidentiality and integrity are “orthogonal issues?” They should be treated differently since a highly-trusted-for-writing person might not have high-level reading access and viceversa.


Lecture 21
1. Why is Biba Integrity called the “dual” of the BLP model? Because in an associated access control matrix an particular entry in the BLP model will be the opposite in the Biba model
2. Why in the ACM on slide 5 is the entry for Subj3 - Obj3 empty? Because Object 3 does not contain all of the categories that Subject 1 does.
3. If a subject satisfies confidentiality requirements but fails integrity requirements of an object, can the subject access the object? It can read it, not write it


Lecture 22
1. What is the assumption about subjects in Biba’s low water mark policy? Not giving much credit to the subject. “If you read lousy information, you’ll get corrupted.”
2. Are the subjects considered trustworthy? Not very much given that they can be in a corrupt state.
3. Does the Ring policy make some assumption about the subject that the LWM policy does not? Yes, it assumes that the subject can properly filter the information it receives.
4. Are the subjects considered trustworthy? Yes, due to their ability to filter information.


Lecture 23
1. Are the SD and ID categories in Lipner’s model related to each other? Both of them refer to programs under development but in terms of confidentiality and integrity respectively
2. Why is it necessary for system controllers to have to ability to downgrade? In order to be able to change labels/authorization levels
3. Can system controllers modify development code/test data? No, they just have the ability to move them to production.
4. What form of tranquility underlies the downgrade ability? Weak tranquility


Lecture 24
1. What is the purpose of the four fundamental concerns of Clark and Wilson? To have a legitimate way of conducting transactions including parties involved and the action that was taken. Also to guarantee the legality of the transaction.
2. What are some possible examples of CDIs in a commercial setting? Bank balances, checks, grades
3. What are some possible examples of UDIs in a commercial setting? Welcome-candy, water cups, classroom chalks
4. What is the difference between certification and enforcement rules? Certification attempts to guarantee validity in state of the CDI at the given moment. Enforcement deals with authorization levels and guaranteeing confidentiality.
5. Give an example of permission in a commercial setting. (Bank teller, deposit money into customer’s account, {checks, cash, money orders})


Lecture 25
1. Why would a consultant hired by American Airlines potentially have a breach of confidentiality if also hired by United Airlines? They could carry with themselves some sensitive information that might benefit the new company against the old one
2. In the example conflict classes, if you accessed a file from GM, then subsequently accessed a file from Microsoft, will you then be able to access another file from GM? No, but you can access any file in a different conflict class
3. Following the previous question, what companies’ files are available for access according to the simple security rule? Files ‘within the wall’ (from the same company) or files from a company in a different conflict of interest class
4. What differences separate the Chinese-Wall policy from the BLP model? Chinese-Wall policy is designed to address a very specific concern, which is conflicts of interest by a consultant or contractor.


Lecture 26
1. What benefits are there in associating permissions with roles, rather than subjects? You just need to associate permissions with role X instead of associating permissions with all the people who perform role X. 
2. What is the difference between authorized roles and active roles? “Authorized roles” is a superset of active roles. Authorized roles are all the roles a person may take, while active roles entitle the roles that the person is currently taking.
3. What is the difference between role authorization and transaction authorization? Role authorization means that a subject’s active role must be an authorized role for him/her, while transaction authorization means a subject can execute a transaction only if the transaction is authorized for one of the subject’s active roles.
4. What disadvantages do standard access control policies have when compared to RBAC? Harder to administer, subjects have to change identities in order for them to transition between roles, standard access control policies do not recognize that a subject often has various functions within the organization.


Lecture 27
1. Why would one not want to build an explicit ACM for an access control system? In realistic systems most subjects don’t have any access to most objects.
2. Name, in order, the ACM alternatives for storing permissions with objects, storing permissions with subjects and computing permissions on the fly. 1) Maintaining a set of rules to compute access permissions “on the fly” based on attributes of subjects and objects. 2) Store the permissions with objects (ACL). 3) Store the permissions with subjects (capability-based system).


Lecture 28
1. What must be true for the receiver to interpret the answer to a “yes” or “no” question? The receiver needs to know in advance whether a 0 represents a yes or a no, as well as a 1
2. Why would one want to quantify the information content of a message? To know how many bits to send/expect to receive
3. Why must the sender and receiver have some shared knowledge and an agreed encoding scheme? In order for the receiver to be able to decode the sent message and communication occurs
4. Why wouldn’t the sender want to transmit more data than the receiver needs to resolve uncertainty? Covert channel, you don’t want to send more than necessary in order to resolve uncertainty.
5. If the receiver knows the answer to a question will be “yes,” how many bits of data quantify the information content? Explain. Just one bit would be needed but the receiver and the sender would have had to agree on whether 1 represents yes or no beforehand


Lecture 29
1. How much information is contained in each of the first three messages from slide 2? 4 bits of information
2. Why does the amount of information contained in “The attack is at dawn” depend on the receiver’s level of uncertainty? Because if the receiver already knows part of the incoming message, say that they are talking about the attack, then the sender may be able to just send one bit to indicate “dawn”. More bits for more information.
3. How many bits of information must be transmitted for a sender to send one of exactly 16 messages? Why? 4 bits, each time a bit is received the search space is reduced by half. After the fourth bit you’ll arrive at the desired message 
4. How much information content is contained in a message from a space of 256 messages? 8 bits
5. Explain why very few circumstances are ideal, in terms of sending information content. Because if you have an ideal situation it would mean that each bit transmitted can reduce uncertainty by half, which in some real systems doesn’t happen


Lecture 30
1. Explain the difference between the two connotations of the term “bit.” One is a binary digit and the other a quantity of information
2. Construct the naive encoding for 8 possible messages. 0000, 0001, 0010, 0011, 0100, 0101, 0110, 0111 which encode 0 through 7 respectively
3. Explain why the encoding on slide 5 takes 995 + (5 * 5) bits. 99.5% of the messages will be message 10, which gives us 995, and then 5 of the messages are error messages which require 5 bits to tell us which message was sent. 
4. How can knowing the prior probabilities of messages lead to a more efficient encoding? Messages that are more likely to happen use way fewer bits when actually sent
5. Construct an encoding for 4 possible messages that is worse than the naïve encoding. We could use random junk: For 1 through 4 we can do 100110, 001111, 010110, and 101111 respectively
6. What are some implications if it is possible to find an optimal encoding? That type of encoding should be used 


Lecture 31
1. Name a string in the language consisting of positive, even numbers. “2864286 ”
2. Construct a non-prefix-free encoding for the possible rolls of a 6-sided die. 	1	01
2	010
3	0101
4	01010
5	010101
6 	0101010
3. Why is it necessary for an encoding to be uniquely decodable? It is necessary in order to eliminate ambiguity and decode the message successfully.
4. Why is a lossless encoding scheme desirable? So there is no loss of information and the receiver gets all the data that was actually sent.
5. Why doesn’t Morse code satisfy our criteria for encodings? It does not contain the streaming property


Lecture 32
1. Calculate the entropy of an 8-sided, fair die (all outcomes are equally likely). –( sum[ (1/8)*log2(1/8) , (1/8)*log2(1/8) , (1/8)*log2(1/8) , (1/8)*log2(1/8) , (1/8)*log2(1/8) , (1/8)*log2(1/8) , (1/8)*log2(1/8) , (1/8)*log2(1/8)  ] ) = 3
2. If an unbalanced coin is 4 times more likely to yield a tail than a head, what is the entropy of the language? 
– (sum [(1/4)*log2(1/4)+1*log2(1)] ) = 1/2
3. Why is it important to know the entropy of a language? To know the average number of bits needed to store or communicate one symbol in a message


Lecture 33
1. Explain the reasoning behind the expectations presented in slide 3. You multiply the probability of the first outcome happening times the probability of the second outcome happening. For example heads happens 3 out of 4 flips. So HH would happen 3*3/4*4 = 9/16
2. Explain why the total expected number of bits is 27 in the example presented in slide 4. For every result you multiply the count (number of times it happens) against the number of bits used for its respective code and that gives you the number of bits used, which when added up give you 27
3. What is the naive encoding for the language in slide 5? 000, 001, 010, 011, 100, 101 representing 0 through 5 respectively
4. What is the entropy of this language? – [(2/3)*log2(2/3) + (2/3)*log2(2/3) + (1/3)*log2(1/3) + (1/3)*log2(1/3) + (1/4)*log2(1/4) + (1/4)*log2(1/4)] 
5. Find an encoding more efficient than the naive encoding for this language. The outcomes that happen the most often will receive a one-bit encoding and as the probability decreases more bits will be added 
6. Why is your encoding more efficient than the naive encoding? Less bits per encoding for those messages that happen most often

