Peter Luke Conlon
plc585
luke
luke@cs.utexas.edu

Week 5 Questions

Lecture 66
1) PGP stands for Pretty Good Privacy - it is a package of cryptographic algorithms that are purposed to be easy to use.
2) Zimmerman was motivated by distrust of the government and wanting everyone to be able to use these security practices, without needing to be an expert first.
3) The FBI, US and Italian governments had a hard time decrypting his packages so yes it is pretty effective.
4) A lot of companies want to purchase support so there is someone they can call on if they are having an issue.

Lecture 67
1) S hashes message M, encrypts it with his private key, and sends it appended with the original message to R so that R knows it was from S.
2) In the PGP confidentiality protocol, you take the message, generate a new session key, encrypt the message with the session key symmetrically, then you encrypt the key with the receiver's public key. Package the whole thing and send it to the receiver. 
3) To get both, apply the authentication step and then the confidentiality step to that.

Lecture 68
1) Besides authentication and confidentiality, PGP also offers compression, email compatibility, and segmentation.
2) Compression saves bandwidth because they are sent over the internet.
3) You don't want the signature to depend on the compression algorithm.
4) Radix-64 conversion maps groups of three octets into four ASCII characters and this is needed because many email systems permit only ASCII text.
5) Email systems restrict message length, so segmentation allows PGP to break up the message, send the individual pieces without complaint, and then put them back together at the end.

Lecture 69
1) The four keys of PGP are Session keys, Public Keys, Private Keys, and Passphrase-based keys.
2) They are used only once and are associated with a single message; they should be high entropy and not guessable.
3) CAST-128 is used to generate the key from a previous session key and two 64-bit blocks generated based on user keystrokes, and keystroke timing. The two 64-bit blocks are encrypted using CAST-128 and the previous key, and concatenated to form the new key.
4) Keys are generated by generating a number of the needed size, about 200 bits, and testing it for primality. If it is not prime, repeat the process until it is.
5) To access your private key, you must type in your passphrase, which is then hashed and used as the encryption or decryption of the private key. This is necessary because it is crucial that our private keys to be safe to protect the rest of the system. 

Lecture 70
1) You generate an ID that is likely to be unique for the user - the least significant 64 bits of the key are the ID. The receiver uses this to see if he has this key on his "key ring."
2) A user's private key ring has his own private keys, and information to identify them (timestamp, corresponding public keys, and key ID).
3) A user's public key ring has a timestamp, key ID, user ID, and the public keys.
4) To access a private key, PGP asks me to type in my passphrase, that is hashed, and the result is used to encrypt or decrypt my private key.
5) The key legitimacy field indicates how strongly PGP believes that the key belongs to who you think it does.
6) A key is revoked by sending out a revocation certificate; you cannot destroy the key, but you can advise with this that no one use the key anymore

Lecture 71
1) The consumer problem is where a middle man attacker gets between the client and service and disrupts the communication. The producer problem is where the attacker attacks the server and sends so many illegitimate requests at it that the server is overwhelmed and cannot respond to legit requests. The producer problem is more common.
2) Syn Flooding is a producer attack that utilizes a TCP handshake protocol to tie up the server's resources in waiting for a response from the attacker that will not be coming. The attacker has sent a fake return address.
3) Increasing the size of the server's internal table has a limit because each half open connection takes space and the attacker could always send more requests, shortening the time-out period might disallow connections by slower clients, and filtering suspicious packets may be hard because it is not easy to tell which are legit. 

Lecture 72
1) If you can filter out the bad requests before they get to the server, then you have eliminated the problem; however, it is hard to tell which packets are bad.
2) IDS analyze and react to anomalous patterns after the attack has begun, but IPS attempts to prevent the intrusions by more aggressively blocking attempted attacks.
3) Over-provisioning the network is expensive and unworkable because there are too many servers, filtering attack packets is hard because of the distiguising problem, slow down processing disadvantages all requesters, and the speak-up solution requests additional traffic from all requestors.

Lecture 73
1) False positives mean that you determined a client was an attacker when he was not, and a false negative is the opposite. Which one is worse depends on your goals, it is not a clear answer.
2) Accurate means it detects all genuine attacks so it has no false negatives. Precise means that it never reports legitimate behavior as an attack so no false positives.
3) It is easy to make a system that is accurate or precise, but the hard part is to find a middle ground - a system that is good at both.
4) With 1% of traffic being attacks, and a detection accuracy of 90%, there is about a 92% chance of a false positive. This is really bad for an IDS because a monitor of attacks will begin to disregard the alarms. 

Lecture 74
1) Code Red version 1 attempted to generate a random list of IP addresses and infect those machines on the 1st-19th of the month, launch a DoS attack on the whitehouse.gov site the 20th-28th of the month, and deface some webpages with the words "Hacked by Chinese."
2) It failed because they changed the IP address of whitehouse.gov, the random number generator used a static seed so every instance of the worm generated the same lists of IPs so very few machines were attacked - the worm spread slowly.
3) A worm being memory resident means that you can disinfect the machine just by rebooting it. But, once rebooted, the machine is vulnerable to another attack because of the static seed.
4) Version 2 used a randomly generated seed in the random number generator so the worm spread much more widely.

Lecture 75
1) It is not clear if it was the same attacker, but it was inspired by CodeRedI because it had "CodeRedII" as a string in the code.
2) If it infects machines with the same prefix IP, they are likely to be in the same subnet and be running similar software so it will have a better chance of infecting them.
3) Code Red II installed something to where it can have remote access to a machine.
4) This means that there is a large population of machines that are vulnerable and the worms can continue to propogate.
5) This study shows how lazy we are when it comes to patching our machines, and we should do better to make the internet safer.

Lecture 76
1) Normal people don't have the time or expertise to decide which security products are sufficient so it is important to have experts report on this.
2) An evaluation standard provides: a set of requirements defining security functionality, a set of assurance requirements needed for establishing the functional requirements, a methodology for determining that the functional requirements are met, and a measure of the evaluation result indicating the trustworthiness of the evaluated system.
3) Crypto devices have a separate evaluation mechanism because it is particularly important for the government, and there are fewer experts on the subject.
4) The four levels of certification are: 1) basic security, which is at least of approved algorithm or function, 2) improved physical security, with tamper-evident packaging, 3) strong tamper resistance and countermeasures, 4) complete envelope of protection including immediate zeroing of keys upon tampering.

Lecture 77
1) The Common Criteria are the set of criteria for the evaluation of secure systems.
2) Common means the same criteria for all countries. 
3) National Schemes are necessary for countries that do not want to accept the criteria given by another country. So each is given their own national scheme, with which they can share with other countries, and those countries can accept or deny their criteria.
4) The Security Target (ST) is the set of security requirements to be used as the basis of evaluation, whereas the Protection Profile (PP) is a type of evaluation under the CC - a set of implementation-independent security requirements for a category of products or systems.

Lecture 78
1) The overall goal of the Protection Profile (PP) as exemplified by the WBIS is to authenticate data, maintain the internal transfer integrity, and maintain the stored data's integrity.
2) The basic data authentication is to assure the validity of the information content, internal transfer integrity is meant to maintain the write integrity of internal transfers of data, and the stored data integrity is meant to prevent modification of data stored on media.
3) The matrix on slide 7 shows a mapping of threats and assumptions (rows) with the security objectives and system requirements (columns) for any system that is actually built; if you fill in the matrix, you can know that all threats are covered if there is an X somewhere in every row.

Lecture 79
1) The overall goal of the security target evaluation as shown by the Sun Identity Manager example is to manage data, support password generation, and specify password qualifications.
2) A security target evaluation differs from a protection profile evaluation because it is a specific instance of a product. This means that you are addressing real vulnerabilities instead of generalizing about potential solutions. For example, passwords have to pass certain requirements to be valid.

Lecture 80
1) EALs are evaluation assurance levels and they are used to verify (by an external group) that certain policies were implemented.
2) The government of the country perform the Common Criteria evaluations to give some verification of the security product.
3) EALs above level 4 are not necessarily mutually recognized by various countries because the verification requirements become more formal.
4) Vendors cannot certify their own products because without a check from another source, they could inflate their safety ratings.
5) It is  probably bad to reverse engineer the model from the code because you could assume that code fills specific requirements, but miss a bug. 

