FIRSTNAME : Jess;
LASTNAME : Khine;
UTEID :  jnk375;
CSACCOUNT : jnk375;
EMAIL : jess.khine@aol.com;

CS361 Questions: Week 4
The questions marked with a dagger (†) require external research and may be more
extensive and time consuming. You don’t have to do them for the assignment but,
but do them to increase your competency in the class.

Lecture 53
1. Why is it important for a digital signature to be non reusable?

	- So that the signature cannot be resued later on by a non-authorized person.

2. Why is it the hash of the message typically signed, rather than the message
itself?

	- It'll be faster to sign a hash compared to signing the entire message.

3. What assurance does R gain from the interchange on slide 4?

	- That R is the only one that can decrypt the message and that S is the one
		that signed the message.


Lecture 54
1. What is the importance of certificate authorities?

	- To provide a middleman that can verify one or both of the parties involved
		in the communication.

2. In the example on slide 5, why does X sign the hash of the first message
with its private key?

	- To indicate that the hash was signed by X because it is the only one that
		has the private key Kx-1.

3. Why is it necessary to have a hash of Y and Ky?

	- More layers of encryption.

4. What would happen if Z had a public key for X, but it was not trustworthy?

	- It would have access to the contents of the message by using the public
		key for X to verify X's signature.


Lecture 55
1. What happens at the root of a chain of trust?

	- The roots of a chain of trust serve as the ultimate authority and initiate
		the first certifications.

2. Why does an X.509 certificate include a “validity interval”?

	- To help deal with the distributed nature of communication. If the time stamp
		is not within the validity interval, the certificate is void.

3. What would it mean if the hash and the received value did not match?

	- It might mean that the contents of the message were modified.


Lecture 56
1. What are some protocols previously discussed?

	- One-Time pad and Diffie-helman

2. What may happen if one step of a protocol is ignored?

	- Communication might not be established properly

3. Why must the ciphers commute in order to accomplish the task in slide 4?

	- To allow the message to be decrypted despite the order of the encryptions.

4. Describe how an attacker can extract M from the protocol in slide 6.

	- Because the protocol is one-time if an attacker is able to crack the cipher,
		they can obtain M, Ka, or Kb.

5. Describle how an attacker can extract Ka from the protocol in slide 6.

	- Because the protocol is one-time if an attacker is able to crack the cipher,
		they can obtain M, Ka, or Kb.

6. Describle how an attacker can extract Kb from the protocol in slide 6.

	- Because the protocol is one-time if an attacker is able to crack the cipher,
		they can obtain M, Ka, or Kb.

7. Why are cryptographic protocols difficult to design and easy to get wrong?

	- Very subtle aspects of a protocol can backfire on the designer.


Lecture 57
1. Explain the importance of protocols in the context of the internet.

	- Almost everything that occurs on the Internet occurs via a protocol, because
		a protocol is a way of establishing communication.

2. Explain the importance of cryptographic protocols in the context of the internet.

	- Cryptographic protocols attempts to add a secure aspect to the communication.
		Very important for certain users.

3. What are the assumptions of the protocol in slide 6?

	- The assumptions are that A and B have access to each other's public keys

4. What are the goals of the protocol in slide 6?

	- To ensure that only the designated receiver can decrypt the message.

5. Are the goals of the protocol in slide 6 satisfied? Explain.

	- Yes

6. How is the protocol in slide 6 flawed?

	- Hmm forgot what Prof. Young said in class about this, sorry :(


Lecture 58
1. Why is it important to know if a protocol includes unnecessary steps or messages?

	- To provide as little information to possible attackers.

2. Why is it important to know if a protocol encrypts items that could be sent
in the clear?

	- The encryption is an unnecessary step and affects efficiency.


Lecture 59
1. Why might it be difficult to answer what constitutes an attack on a cryptographic protocol?

	- a cryptographic protocol has many components. An attack could be on the
		parties of the communication, the method of communication, the encryption, 
		etc.

2. Describe potential dangers of a replay attack.

	- If an attacker records messages and the protocol still treats old messages
		as valid, there is a potential for a replay attack. The attacker can
		re-use the message to impersonate one of the parties and gain information.

3. Are there attacks where an attacker gains no secret information? Explain.

	- Yes. The attacker could just record all the messages being transmitted
		and re-use them, a replay attack.

4. What restrictions are imposed on the attacker?

	- Because of the distributed nature of the system, an attacker won't know if
		the receiver has received the message and already replied back.

5. Why is it important that protocols are asynchronous?

	- It is important because the participants of the protocol won't even know that
		they are participating until they receive their first message. The
		asynchronous nature allows for communication to occur with no time
		restrictions on replies.


Lecture 60
1. Would the Needham-Schroeder protocol work without nonces?

	- No, the N-S protocol is designed for quick communication.

2. For each step of the NS protocol, answer the two questions on slide 5.

	1. 	A wants to send messages to B.
		Receiver believes that A wants to communicate to B.
	2.	S tells A to send B this hash with the of the AB key.
		Receiver believes S sent this message due to the encryption with Kas
	3.	A tells B it wants to communicate. Sends Kab to B.
		Receiver believes A wants to communicate. Decrypts message with Kbs.
	4.	B sends a new nonce to A encrypted with the new Kab key to acknowledge.
		Receiver believes the message is from B due to encryption with Kab
	5.	A sends B another nonce that was manipulated in some way, encrypted with
			key Kab
		Receiver believes message is from A due to encryption, and compares nonces
			to ensure that A was able to modify the nonce.


Lecture 61
1. As in slide 5, if A’s key were later changed, after having K as compromised,
how could A still be impersonated?

	- Could impersonate A by sending A, B, Na to S pretending to be A.

2. Is it fair to ask the question of a key being broken?

	- Yes.

3. How might you address these flaws if you were the protocol designer?

	- Not sure, maybe S can somehow keep track of A's messages and see if
		the message is a replay.


Lecture 62
1. What guarantees does Otway-Rees seem to provide to A and B?

	- That S will provide a way of communication to both A and B securely.

2. Are there guarantees that Needham-Schroeder provides that Otway-Rees
does not or vice versa?

	- No, pretty much the same protocol just different ways of achieving
		communication.

3. How could you fix the flawed protocol from slide 4?

	- Make the protocol require an ack from B and then a check to see if
		the sender can modify the inside message, maybe through nonces.


Lecture 63
1. Why is the verification of protocols important?

	- To possibly be able to identify logic errors that result in major flaws.

2. What is a belief logic?

	- Allows reasoning about what principals within the protocol should be able
		to infer from the messages they see. Helps keep track of each message
		and how the participants react to them.

3. A protocol is a program; where do you think beliefs come in?

	- I don't understand the question (O.o)


Lecture 64
1. What is a modal logic?

	- Logic that involves modals which are words that express different levels of
		the word it's describing.

2. Explain the intuition behind the message meaning inference rule.

	- If A and B share key K and A receives message X encrypted with K, then
		A believes that B sent the message.

3. Explain the intuition behind the nonce verification inference rule.

	- If A believes that the nonce is fresh, and that B sent the nonce, then
		A believes that B generated the nonce.

4. Explain the intuition behind the jurisdiction inference rule.

	- If A believes that B sent X and that B trusts X then A will believe X.

5. What is idealization and why is it needed?

	- Attempts to translate the semantics of a protocol steps


Lecture 65
1. Why do you think plaintext is omitted in a BAN idealization?

	- No assumptions based on plaintext components.

2. Some idealized steps seem to refer to beliefs that will happen later in the
protocol. Why would that be?

	- For some steps to hold, they require other steps to be true, possibly
		in the future for later steps.

3. One benefit of a BAN proof is that it exposes assumptions. Explain that.

	- By exposing assumptions, it helps realize what the goal of the protocol is
		at its current sequence of actions.
