Name: Robinson Nguyen
EID: rn5644
CS Login: rnguyen
Email: robinson_nguyen@hotmail.com

Lecture 66
1) PGP is a program that uses high level cryptographic algorithms to encrypt things.
2) Zimmerman didn't trust the government.
3) Several governments had trouble decrypting it.
4) Freeware usually doesn't have customer service for maintenence.

Lecture 67
1) The sender hashes a message and signs with the private key of the sender and sends it with the message.
2) The sender creates a new key and use that on the message and encrypt the key with the receivers public key.
3) Use both protocols together.

Lecture 68
1) It also provides compression, email compatibility, and segmentation.
2) So we can save bandwitdh when sending it to a receiver.
3) So the signature won't have to depend on the compression algorithm.
4) It converts the text ascii so that all computers can handle and read the message.
5) Emails are often restricted in length, so segmentation lets you send messages in segments.

Lecture 69
1) Session, public, privatem passphrase-based keys.
2) Session keys are a per message basis and makes it hard for an attacker to crack.
3) Previous session keys, keystrokes and keystroke timing. 
4) The keys involve two large prime numbers
5) It asks for a passphrase so private keys can be kept private.

Lecture 70
1) The last 64 bits of the message is an ID that can tell which public key is used.
2) Timestamp, keyID, public and private key, and userID.
3) Timestamp, keyiD, public key, and userID.
4) You can use the user or key ID. PGP asks for the passphrase.
5) It can store certificates that can verify the authenticity of a users keys.
6) The key could be compromised or the key could be old.

Lecture 71
1) The consumer can't send requests to the server, and the producer's resources get used up.
2) The attacker doesn't respond to a server so the server has to wait.
3) It consumes more resources, prevents less clients, and may lose clients. It doesn't deal with the problem of syn flooding

Lecture 72
1) It can prevent illegitimate requests from going through.
2) Detection looks at patterns in the system and checks if anything got past the firewall
while prevention tries to block attacks before anything gets through the firewall.
3) over-provisioning is expensive since it uses several servers, filtering attack packets
is hard to distinguish attack packets from regular packets, slow down processing 
is where everyone is at disadvantage, and the speak-up solution requests additional traffic.

Lecture 73
1) False positives are when attacks aren't detected and false negatives are when harmless behavior are classified as an attack.
I think it depends on what you want.
2) Accurate is when it detects genuine attacks and precise never reports harmless behavior as an attack. 
3) You could never flag an attack or always flag an attack.
4) Even though you could have high accuracy, there is still a percentage that are false positives.

Lecture 74
1) It tried to launch a DoS attack on the whitehouse.
2) The random number generator generated the same lists of IP addresses.
3) It resided in the volatile memory of the machine. 
4) It corrected the flaws of the static seed and also attacked the internet. 

Lecture 75
1) It had the string CodeRed in it.
2) It's more likely to infect machines within the same area.
3) It sets a backdoor machine and launches threads attacking other machines.
4) The people didn't seem it too important to patch the machines and the worm will propogate.
5) People are lousy about patching their machines.

Lecture 76
1) So you don't have to be experts to buy security products.
2) Requirements for functionality, assurance requirements for establishing funtional
requirements, methodology to determine if the requirements are met, and an evaluation
to give a grade.
3)  Cryptography is a sensitive field and has a lot less experts.
4) basic security with atleast one algorithm, improved security, stronger tamper-resistance
and complete protection of tampering.

Lecture 77
1) A set of documents and methodology for applying the criteria.
2) Common among certain countries.
3) Some countries have different created criteria.
4) Protection profile is a document that describes the security requirements for class of systems
while security target is the basis of requirements to be used for evaluation.

Lecture 78
1) To keep track of the waste cleared. 
2) To check if the data is fully recorded and tag the waste bin. The time stamp and the amount of waste. 
3) So that we can see which threats to account for and all the assumptions are validated.

Lecture 79
1) Store properties and keep the confidentiality of the users.  
2) The security target evaluation scores how well the product handles the security requirements
while a protection profile evaluation scores how well it matches the profile it's comparing to.

Lecture 80
1) Levels that determine the quality of product that meets certain standards.
2) The government of the country where the evaluation is being performed.
3) Different countries have various standards for evaluating security products.
4) No because it's the government that usually upkeeps the criteria necessary. 
5) It probably wouldn't be as secure and meet the security requirements.
