Name: Caitlin Billings
EID: cb27349
CS Login: caitlin
Email: cxbillings@gmail.com

Lecture 1
1. What uses of the term “security” are relevant to your everyday life?
banking, web security, protection of personal information in financial transactions, home security, personal security

2. What do these have in common?
They all relate to the protection of some information or asset.

3. Have you been a victim of lax security?
When I was in high school, a laptop was stolen from the Old Navy company that contained files with the personal information - including SSNs - of anybody who had recently applied 
to work there, including myself.

4. What is the likelihood that your laptop is infected? How did you decide?
It's probably infected in some small way that I'm unaware of, but it doesn't seem to be affecting me adversely.

5. What security measures do you employ on your laptop?
password protection, Norton Security, MalwareBytes

6. Do you think they are probably effective?
They're effective enough for my purposes, but I don't keep especially important information on my laptop.

7. Consider the quote from the FBI official on slide 10. Do you think it overstates the case? Justify your answer.
No, especially considering how much crucial and potentially dangerous military information is kept on computers.

8. What is the importance in learning about computer security?
It will help to enhance the protection of the information in systems we may work on in the future.

Lecture 2
1. Consider the five reasons given why security is hard. Can you think of other
factors?
Many of the factors in a complex system may be out of the direct control of the person trying to implement a security policy, like employees or users that could, whether on 
purpose or accidentally, compromise the system's integrity.

2. Is there a systematic way to enumerate the “bad things” that might happen
to a program? Why or why not?
The "bad things" that might happen vary too much in nature and complexity from program to program to create a useful formula for listing them.

3. Explain the asymmetry between the defender and attacker in security.
The defender is responsible for trying to prevent all possible threats, while the attacker needs only to find one possible point of weakness.

4. Examine the quotes from Morris and Chang. Do you agree? Why or why not?
I do agree - since there is no such thing as a perfectly secure system, the only way to ensure perfect security is to not use any system (or computer).

5. Explain the statement on slide 8 that a tradeoff is typically required.
Since security cannot be perfect without fully sacrificing utility, you have to find a balance between a system being reasonably secure and also reasonably useful.

Lecture 3
1. Define “risk”?
"the possibility that a particular threat will adversely impact an information system by exploiting a particular vulnerability"

2. Do you agree that software security is about managing risk?
yes

3. Name and explain a risk you accept, one you avoid, one you mitigate, and
one you transfer?
risk acceptance: accepting that sometimes the cost of insurance is greater than the potential loss
risk avoidance: disallowing remote login
risk mitigation: encrypting data between companies and clients
risk transfer: transferring responsibility to a home security company

4. Evaluate annualized loss expectancy as a risk management tool.
It works well because it measures the cost of a loss by not only it's monetary value, but also weighs it by its probability of occurring, giving a good idea of the true importance 
of mitigating that risk.

5. List some factors relevant to rational risk assessment.
probability of the risk, cost of the potential loss, cost of reducing the risk/loss

Lecture 4
1. Explain the key distinction between the lists on slides 2 and 3.
The list on slide 2 describes the overarching goals of computer security, while the list on slide 3 describes specific methods for reaching those goals.

2. Consider your use of computing in your personal life. Which is most important: confidentiality, integrity, availability? Justify your answer.
For me, availability is the most important one, especially when I need to access my files/the Internet/whatever for school purposes.

3. What does it mean “to group and categorize data”?
dividing data up into groups with different levels of importance and that therefore require different levels of security

4. Why might authorizations change over time?
The people trying to access the data could have their allowances changes based on promotions/demotions or changing projects, etc.

5. Some of the availability questions seem to relate more to reliability than to
security. How are the two related?
It has to do with the tradeoff between utility and security described in lecture 2. The security policy cannot be so strict that it undermines the usefulness and reliability of a 
system.

6. In what contexts would authentication and non-repudiation be considered important?
financial transactions, such as making a purchase (or denying a false purchase report) on a website

Lecture 5
1. Describe a possible metapolicy for a cell phone network? A military database?
cell phone network: ensure that users are connected correctly to the person they are trying to reach without allowing any third party to listen in
military database: ensure that only people with the proper clearance(s) are permitted access to the proper data

2. Why do you need a policy if you have a metapolicy?
The metapolicy may be to general to act upon, or it may be open to multiple interpretations.

3. Give three possible rules within a policy concerning students’ academic records.
1. Students cannot modify their own academic records.
2. A student can only access his or her own record.
3. Professors can modify student records, but only for those of their classes in which the student is enrolled.

4. Could stakeholders’ interest conflict in a policy? Give an example.
Yes, for example it is in the interest of some websites to use user information to employ targeted advertising, while users may see this as a breach of confidentiality.

5. For the example given involving student SSNs, state the likely metapolicy.
The goal is to keep student SSNs out of the hands of other students/third parties.

6. Explain the statement: ”If you don’t understand the metapolicy, it becomes
difficult to justify and evaluate the policy.”
If you don't understand the reasoning behind it, a security measure may seem unneccessary or lacking in usefulness.

Lecture 6
1. Why is military security mainly about confidentiality? Are there also aspects of integrity and availability?
Because the largest threat to military security is other parties trying to access confidential information, about nuclear codes, military movements, etc.

2. Describe the major threat in our MLS thought experiment.
somebody with insufficient clearance (and potentially malicious intent) gaining access to confidential materials

3. Why do you think the proviso is there?
Sometimes a security policy focused on confidentiality may sacrifice integrity or availability, which in this case have lower priorities.

4. Explain the form of the labels we’re using.
(Level of Security: {List of Related Categories})

5. Why do you suppose we’re not concerned with how the labels get there?
That is to be decided by the people in charge of the information in question and is unrelated to determining the security policy.

6. Rank the facts listed on slide 6 by sensitivity.
from low to high: cafeteria menu, softball game, Col. Jones got a raise, Col. Smith didn't get a raise, the British have broken the code, the Normandy invasion

7. Invent labels for documents containing each of those facts.
cafeteria menu: (Unclassified, {})
softball game: (Unclassified, {})
Col. Jones got a raise: (Confidential, {Personnel})
Col. Smith didn't get a raise: (Confidential, {Personnel})
the British have broken the code: (Top Secret, {Crypto})
the Normandy invasion: (Top Secret, {Military})

8. Justify the rules for “mixed” documents.
A document must use the highest appropriate level to ensure that parties with lower clearance still can't access high-security materials. A document must also use all related 
categories to ensure that people in one area but not another can't read the other group's materials.

Lecture 7
1. Document labels are stamped on the outside. How are “labels” affixed to humans?
clearances/authorization levels

2. Explain the difference in semantics of labels for documents and labels for humans.
The label on a document indicates the level of security needed to access the document, while the label for a human indicates the level of document that that person is able to 
access.

3. In the context of computers what do you think are the analogues of documents? Of humans?
data and programs attempting to access that data

4. Explain why the Principle of Least Privilege makes sense.
A subject having extra, unneccessary information only increases the risk of a breach of security with that data.

5. For each of the pairs of labels on slide 6, explain why the answers in the
third column do or do not make sense.
1. Yes - the clearance level is higher than the sensitivity level and the categories are the same, so access should be allowed.
2. Yes - the sensitivity level is higher than the clearance level, so access should not be allowed.
3. Yes - the clearance level is higher than the sensitivity level and the categories include the empty set.

Lecture 8:
1. Why do you think we introduced the vocabulary terms: objects, subjects, actions?
in order to easily transfer from thinking about people and documents into thinking about security in a computer system

2. Prove that dominates is a partial order (reflexive, transitive, antisymmetric).
reflexive: a subject and object with identical labels will allow both a read and write, so all pairs are related to themselves
transitive: If a < b, then either the sensitivity level of a is less than that of b or it is equal to b's and the categories of a are a subset of the categories of b. If also b < 
c, then either the sensitivity level of b is less than that of c or it is equal to c's and the categories of b are a subset of the categories of c. Therefore it must be true that 
the sensitivity level of a is less than that of c or it is equal to c's and the categories of a are a subset of the categories of a, or a < c.
antisymmetric: The only way for a to dominate b and for b to dominate a is if they have the same level and each has a set of categories that is the subset of the other - meaning 
the pairs must be identical.

3. Show that dominates is not a total order.
there exist pairs of sets for which neither is a subset of the other

4. What would have to be true for two labels to dominate each other?
They would have to have the same level of sensitivity and the same set of categories.

5. State informally what the the Simple Security property says.
If a subject has a label that dominates the label of an object, the subject can read that object.

6. Explain why it’s “only if” and not “if and only if.”
Having a dominating label does not guarantee a successful read, there may be other criteria that can prevent it.

Lecture 9
1. Why isn’t Simple Security enough to ensure confidentiality?
Because high-clearance subjects can still potentially write high-sensitivity information to low-sensitivity documents where it could be read by low-clearance subjects.

2. Why do we need constraints on write access?
see answer 1

3. What is it about computers, as opposed to human beings, that makes that particularly important?
Humans have a higher capacity to think "maybe I shouldn't write the nuclear codes on the cafeteria chalkboard."

4. State informally what the *-Property says.
If an object has a label that dominates the label of a subject, the subject can write to that object.

5. What must be true for a subject to have both read and write access to an
object?
The subject and object's labels must dominate one another - that is, they must be equal.

6. How could we deal with the problem that the General (top secret) can’t send
orders to the private (Unclassified)?
promote the private

7. Isn’t it a problem that a corporal can overwrite the war plan? Suggest how we might deal with that.
Yes, it's a problem that deals with integrity instead of confidentiality, so we'd have to find a way to implement an integrity policy along side our current policy.

Lecture 10:
1. Evaluate changing a subject’s level (up or down) in light of weak tranquility.
Changing a subject's level up violates weak tranquility because the subject will have access to new documents that he shouldn't, but changing the subject's level down is fine 
because it only impacts availability.

2. Why not just use strong tranquility all the time?
It ignores the possibility that people can gain rank and therefore access to more confidential materials and other situations like that.

3. Explain why lowering the level of an object may be dangerous.
Because it allows access by people of a lower clearance who potentially should not see that information.

4. Explain what conditions must hold for a downgrade (lowering object level)
to be secure.
The new level would still have to dominate the level of anyone who should not have access to the object.

Lecture 11:
1. Suppose you wanted to build a (library) system in which all subjects had read access to all files, but write access to none of them. What levels could you give to subjects and 
objects?
All subjects could have high clearance, and all objects could have low sensitivity.

2. Why wouldn’t you usually build an access control matrix for a BLP system?
In a system with potentially thousands or millions of subjects and objects the matrix would be unreasonably large.

Lecture 12
1. Suppose you had hierarchical levels L, H with L < H, but only had one
category A. Draw the lattice. (Use your keyboard and editor to draw it; it
doesn’t have to be fancy.)

          (H, {A})
         /        \
        /          \
       v            v
     (H, {})      (L, {A})
       \            /
        \          /
         v        v
           (L, {})

2. Given any two labels in a BLP system, what is the algorithm for finding
their LUB and GLB?


3. Explain why upward flow in the lattice really is the metapolicy for BLP.
because it's what we really care about from a security standpoint

Lecture 13
1. Explain how the BLP rules are supposed to enforce the metapolicy in the
example on slide 1.
Because it only allows reads from high and writes from low, pushing and pulling data upward only in the lattice.

2. Argue that the READ and WRITE operations given satisfy BLP.
They allow the upward flow of information without communicating any unnecessary data.

3. Argue that the CREATE and DESTROY operations given satisfy BLP.
They're just specialized instances of read and write, which we know satisfy BLP.

4. What has to be true for the covert channel on slide 5 to work?
A failed read must return 0, otherwise no information is given.

5. Why is the DESTROY statement there?
so that the process can be repeated and more data can be transmitted

6. Are the contents of any files different in the two paths?
no

7. Why does SL do the same thing in both cases? Must it?
It must because the low level doesn't yet know whether or not high has created that file.

8. Why does SH do different things? Must it?
Yes, otherwise there's no way to differentiate and transmit useful data.

9. Justify the statement on slide 7 that begins: “If SL ever sees...”
If SL can ever glean data from SH based on its actions, that would be data moving up the lattice, which violates the metapolicy.

Lecture 14
1. Explain why “two human users talking over coffee is not a covert channel.”
because that interaction occurs between subjects outside the system

2. Is the following a covert channel? Why or why not?
Send 0 | Send 1
------------------------------------------
Write (SH, F0, 0) | Write (SH, F0, 1)
Read (SL, F0) | Read (SL, F0)
No, SL will never be allowed access to read F0 and will always get a 0 for a failed read.

3. Where does the bit of information transmitted “reside” in Covert Channel #1?
in the returned error message

4. In Covert Channel #2?
in the system clock

5. In Covert Channel #3?
in the disk drive

6. In Covert Channel #4?
in the code

7. Why might a termination channel have low bandwidth?
because the computation might run for a long time before terminating

8. What would have to be true to implement a power channel?
You would need some sort of external ammeter or voltmeter to measure the power output of a system.

9. For what sort of devices might power channels arise?
smartcards

Lecture 15
1. Explain why covert channels, while appearing to have such a low bandwidth, can potentially be very serious threats.
They can communicate thousands of bits per second without impacting regular processing.

2. Why would it be infeasible to eliminate every potential covert channel?
Removing every possible channel of communication would limit the system's utility too much.

3. If detected, how could one respond appropriately to a covert channel?
eliminating it, restricting its bandwidth, adding noise, or monitoring it

4. Describe a scenario in which a covert storage channel exists.
the first covert channel that we talked about in Lecture 13

5. Describe how this covert storage channel can be utilized by the sender and
receiver.
The sender modifies some attribute of a shared object, and the receiver views that attribute to gain information.

Lecture 16
1. Why wouldn’t the “create” operation have an R in the SRMM for the “file
existence” attribute?
because it doesn't tell you whether the file was created or if the create failed

2. Why does an R and M in the same row of an SRMM table indicate a potential channel?
It shows an area where a high-level can modify something that a low-level could later reference.

3. If an R and M are in the same column of an SRMM table, does this also indicate a potential covert channel? Why or why not?
No, because a column spans different attributes, not operations.
4. Why would anyone want to go through the trouble to create an SRMM table?
to identify possible covert channels
