Name: Justin Baiko
EID: jb39998
CS Login: baiko
Email:baiko@utexas.edu


CS361 Questions: Week 5
Lecture 66
1. What is PGP?
Pretty Good Privacy is a strong encryption thats easy to use and is in the form of an email encryption system.
2. What motivated Phil Zimmerman to develop it?
Distrust in the government & a belief in a right to privacy
3. Does PGP provide effective security?
Military Grade
4. If PGP is freeware, why would anyone bother to purchase support?
Know there isn't a backdoor. Integrity of the product. Especially if you need vendor support.
Lecture 67
1. Explain the PGP authentication protocol.
The sender prepends a pregenerated hash to a message & signs it with his private key allowing the reciever to decode the message with the senders public key recovering the hash code and compares it to a hash generated by himself.
2. Explain the PGP confidentiality protocol.
The sender generates a message and encrypts with a key then encrypting the session key with the recievers public key allow the reciever to use his private key to recover the session key.
3. How do you get both authentication and confidentiality?
Apply authentication to the original message then the confidentiality step to the resulting message.
Lecture 68
1. Besides authentication and confidentiality, what other “services” does PGP
provide?
Compression Email compatabilit and Segmentation
2. Why is compression needed?
Allows the message to be compressed and zipped after signature and encryption. Its better to sign an uncompressed message because versions of the compressed algorithm behave slightly differently. Encryption after compression strengthens encryption since compression reduces redundancy in the message.
3. Why sign a message and then compress, rather than the other way around?
Different compression algorithms scramble and you need the exact one so its easier to make it algorithm independent.
4. Explain radix-64 conversion and why it’s needed?
It maps groups of three 8 bit octets into four ASCII characters because most e-mail systems would clog decipher texts thinking they were control commands. the r-64 conversion also allows CRC for data rerror checking but expands the message 33%.
5. Why is PGP segmentation needed?
E-mail systems limit the length of messages so PGP automatically segments large messages sends them and recieves them in-house.
Lecture 69
1. What are the four kinds of keys used by PGP?
Session,Public,Private,Passphrase-based
2. What special properties are needed of session keys?
Session keys are used only once.0
3. How are session keys generated?
Encryption generates two n-bit keys and two n/2-bit blocks generated based on user keystrokes and user timing. the two blocks are encrypted and combined to form the new key.
4. Assuming RSA is used for PGP asymmetric encryption, how are the keys
generated?
a key of prime-size bits through testing and that is used to generate the hash seed.
5. How are the private keys protected? Why is this necessary?
stored using a passphrase key that the system creates using SHA-1 for the public and for the private key generates a CAST-128.
Very expensive to generate.

Lecture 70
1. If a user has multiple private/public key pairs, how does he know which was
used when he receives an encrypted message?
Loses the last 64-bit of the key as a unique ID allowing a reciever to check his "key ring"
2. What’s on a user’s private key ring?
Timestamps,Key ID,Public & Private key, User ID
3. What’s on a user’s public key ring?
Timestamp KEY ID PUBLIC KEY AND USER ID
4. What are the steps in retrieving a private key from the key ring?
Retreieves the private key using the key ID field in the session key component, prompts the user for the passphrase to recover the unenecrypted private key and then proceeds to decrypt
5. What is the key legitimacy field for?
Indication of PGPs trust in the validity of a public key
6. How is a key revoked?
Suspicion or limited use of key. signs a key revocation certificate.
Lecture 71
1. Explain the difference between the consumer and producer problems. Which
is more prevalent?
One blocks the website the consumer can access the producers page while the other ties up all produces resources that it cannot take any more incoming orders per se.
2. Explain syn flooding.
Server is waiting for an ack from user because it has space allocated on the server however the user does it not send it and the server thefore has to wait for the space to time-out.
3. Why are the first three solutions to syn flooding not ideal?
first one uses more resources, second one limits slower clients and third one is hard to implement
Lecture 72
1. Why does packet filtering work very well to prevent attacks?
it allows you to deny requests from obvious intruders.
2. What are the differences between intrusion detection and intrusion prevention
systems?
one prevents and one deals with intruders already in the system.
3. Explain the four different solutions mentioned to DDoS attacks.
Firewall filters illegal requests, packet sniffers rejects requests from IPs outside of range, IDS detects intruders by traffic patterns and IPS aggressively blocks attacks.
Lecture 73
1. Explain false positive and false negatives. Which is worse?
False Negatives. A breach has occured.
2. Explain what “accurate” and “precise” mean in the IDS context.
Accurate is detecting all attacks whiel precise never misreports activity.
3. Explain the statement: “It’s easy to build an IDS that is either accurate or
precise?
Its a balancing act.
4. What is the base rate fallacy? Why is it relevant to an IDS?
Means no matter what you will classify regular usage as an attack
Lecture 74
CS361 Questions: Week 5 3
1. What did Code Red version 1 attempt to do?
get a bunch of computers to DOs the white house
2. Why was Code Red version 1 ineffective?
used a static seed
3. What does it mean to say that a worm is “memory resident”? What are the
implications.
it got lost everytime you rebooted but was vulnerable to being infected again
4. Why was Code Red version 2 much more effective than version 1?
used a random seed.
Lecture 75
1. How was Code Red II related to Code Red (versions 1 and 2)?
It didnt deface any websites and stayed in memory after reboot.
2. Why do you suppose Code Red II incorporated its elaborate propogation
scheme?
Tried to get the whole spectrum of of different IPs.
3. What did Code Red II attempt to do?
Recruit for a zombie attack
4. Comment on the implications of a large population of unpatched machines.
It takes a while for some countries to patch.
5. Comment on the report from Verizon cited on slide 6. What are the lessons
of their study?
Patch your shit.
Lecture 76
1. Why is a certification regime for secure products necessary and useful?
Most people creating these things might not actually not what they are doing
2. Explain the components of an evaluation standard.
requirements. assurances.methodology.evaluation.
3. Why would crypto devices have a separate evaluation mechanism?
because they need to be evaluated outside
4. Explain the four levels of certification for crypto devices.
1 dealsw ith basic security, second is tamper-proofing, third is counter measures and fourth is zeroing of keys.
Lecture 77
1. What is the Common Criteria?
criteria for countries to evaluate secure systems
2. What’s “common” about it?
it is acknowledged by everyone who adheres to it.
3. Why would there be any need for “National Schemes”?
Countries do things different ways.
4. Explain the difference between a protection profile and a security target.
A PP are requirements for a category of products or systems while a ST is a defense against that subject.
Lecture 78
CS361 Questions: Week 5 4
1. Explain the overall goal of the protection profile as exemplified by theWBIS
example.
to protect the files against the threat
2. What is the purpose of the various parts of the protection profile (as exemplified in the WBIS example)?
detect attackers and invalid actions
3. What is the purpose of the matrix on slide 7?
a mapping of threats to objectives.
Lecture 79
1. Explain the overall goal of the security target evaluation as exemplified by
the Sun Identity Manager example.
managing user access privieleges stored in a user directory format
2. How do you think that a security target evaluation differs from a protection
profile evaluation?
the PP is a level of security while the security targe is a specific system used for evaluation.
Lecture 80
1. What are the EALs and what are they used for?
they are levels of assurance between countries under the CC
2. Who performs the Common Criteria evaluations?
outside labs accredited.
3. Speculate why the higher EALs are not necessarily mutually recognized by
various countries.
Because you don't trust them
4. Can vendors certify their own products? Why or why not?
No because it wouldnt be valid.
5. If you’re performing a formal evaluation, why is it probably bad to reverse
engineer the model from the code?
I dont know!
Well done!