Name: Joel Henning
EID: jsh2689
CS ID: joelhenn
Email: joel_henning@utexas.edu

Lecture 66:

1. PGP is an email encryption system that provides strong encryption for the general user.

2. Phil Zimmermann was motivated to develop PGP because he had a strong distrust for the government and believed that everyone deserved privacy.

3. PGP provides strong encrpytion for users as it combines strong encrpytion algorithms and is still easy to use for most people.

4. Most companies don't like to use freeware, they like to have someone that they can call for support or maintenance. Therefore they will purchase support.


Lecture 67:

1. The PGP authentication protocol is so that the sender can send a message to the receiver, and know that the message came from the sender S because no one else knows S's private key.

2. The PGP authentication protocol is so that the sender can send a message to the receiver, and encrypt it with symmetric encryption and sign it with the receiver's public key.

3. To get both authentication and confidentiality, you apply the authentication protocol to the first message, then apply the confidentiality protocol to the resulting message.


Lecture 68:

1. The other "services" that PGP provides are compression, email compatibility, and segmentation and reassembly.

2. Compression is needed so that the message does not take up the bandwidth in a network.

3. A message should be signed then compressed because you don't want your signature to depend on the compression algorithm that is being used. If it was the other way around, then the signature would vary based on the compression algorithm and therefore would not be valid.

4. Radix-64 conversion is a conversion technique that maps groups of three octets into four ASCII characters. Its needed so that all email systems are compatable with the PGP.

5. PGP segmentation is needed because email systems often restrict message length, so therefore longer messages must be broken into segments, which are mail separately.


Lecture 69:

1. The four kinds of keys are sessions keys, public keys, private keys, and passphrase-based keys.

2. The session keys are only used once per message must by symmetric. The key size depends on the chosen encrypted algorithm.

3. Session keys are generated by generating a new n-bit key from a previous session and key and two n/2-bit blocks based on user keystrokes. Then the previous key is combined with the two blocks to form the new session key.

4. For RSA keys, an odd number n of sufficient size (usually >200 bits) is generated. If it is not a prime then the process is repeated with another randomly generated number until a prime is found.

5. The private keys are protected by a user selected passphrase. This is necessary because if the private key is compromised the whole system is compromised.


Lecture 70:

1. The message also contains an ID that lets the receiver know which pair to use.

2. The user's private key ring is a data structure that contains the timestamp for each pair, the Key ID, the public and private key, and the user ID in each row.

3. The user's public key ring is a data structure that stores the timestamps when the entry was generated, the key ID, the public key, and the user ID.

4. PGP  retrieves a key from the key ring using the Key ID field in the session key as the index. PGP then prompts the user for the passphrase to recover the unencrypted private key. PGP recovers the session key and decrypts the message.

5. The key legitimacy field is used to assess the trust that is to be assigned to the key based on certificates and chains of certificates.

6. A key is revoked by the user issuing a signed key revocation certificate.


Lecture 71:

1. Consumer problems are when the attacker get logically between the client and service and somehow disrupt the communication. Producer problems are when the attacker produces, offers or requests so many services that the server is overwhelmed.

2. A syn flooding attack is when an attacker forges syn packets and the server denies access to all other connections until the forged connections time out.

3. The three solutions to syn flooding are not ideal because they also affect the valid connections that are trying to connect to the server.


Lecture 72:

1. Packet filtering work very well to prevent attacks because it checks all incoming packets and discard those with source IP addresses outside a given range. This will limit the packets that get through to only legitimate ones.

2. Intrusion detection is analyzing traffic patterns to recognize when a DoS attack starts. This only happens once the attack has already begun.   Intrustion prevention attempts to prevent attacks by blocking attempted attacks. The attacking traffic needs to be identified for this to be effective.

3. The different solutions for a DDoS attack range from having too many servers to be overwhelmed which can be expensive, to filtering attack packets by somehow distinguishing which packets are bad. This may not be possible. Slow down processing is another example of solving DDoS attacks by slowing down all traffic to disadvantage attackers. Another method is requesting additional traffic from all requestors.


Lecture 73:

1. False positives are when harmless behavior is mis-classified as an attack, while a false negative is when a genuine attack is not detected. False negatives are worse because a genuine attack can wreak havoc on the system.

2. Accurate means that an IDS detects all genuine attack, and precise means that a system never reports legitimate behavior as an attack.

3. Its easy to build an IDS that is accurate by just blocking all behavior, and a system can have perfect precise by just allowing all behavior. Its hard to have a system that has a good dose of both precise and accurate.

4. Base rate fallacy is dealing with the rare events of an attack. Most IDS systems suffer from a base rate fallacy, and report a lot of false negatives.


Lecture 74:

1. Code Red version I attempted to exploit a vulnerablility in webservers if the date was between the 1st and the 19th. Otherwise it would attack whitehouse.gov

2. Code Red version I was ineffective because it used a static seed in its random number generator and thus generates identical lists of IP addresses on each infected machines so most of the machines were not attacked. Also the white house changed its IP address.

3. Memory resident means that it it is in the volitile memory so all you had to do was reboot your computer and it will be gone.

4. Code Red 2 was must more effective because it used a random seed in the random number generator so it was able to infect almost 400,000 machines in the first 14 hours. Also the internect was affected as modems were even effected.


Lecture 75:

1. Code Red II was related to Code Red because it was based off of some of the code used in the first Code Red. It otherwise was not related to the first code red.

2. Code Red II incorporated its elaborate propogation scheme so that it could try and infect as many machines as possible.

3. Code Red II would install a backdoor on infected machines.

4. The implications of a large populations of unpatched machines means that many machines are vulnerable to attack and that a virus could easily attack machines.

5. In my opinion it is iresponisble for a company to not patch their machines and leave customers vulnerable. The lesson that should be taken away is that its important to patch machines as it protects people and makes the internet less vulernable to attacks.

Lecture 76:

1. Certification for secure products is necessary and useful because most people do not have the knowledge to be able to verify security products on their own. They rely on these evaluations by third parties to figure out which product works best for them.

2. THe components for a standard evaluation are just the set of requirements that defien the security functionality, a set of assurance requirements needed for establishing the functional requirements, a methodology for seeing if those requirements are met, and a measure of the trustworthiness of the system. 

3. Crypto devices have a separate evaluation becuase the are so important as well as such a sensitive area. Therefore they need to be verified separately.

4. The four levels of crypto devices go in ascending order. Level 1 is the most basic with at least one approved algorithm or function. Level 2 is a tamper-evident packaging. Level 3 is strong tamper-resistance and countermeasures. level 4 is a complete envelope of protection.


Lecture 77: 

1 The Common Criteria is a standardized method of evaluating security products and policies among countries.

2. Its called Common because 26 countries including the US all use this method to evaluate security products, and an evaluation by a country is usually respected by all the others.

3. There need to be National Schemes becuase each country needs different things when it comes to security products, and so that portion of the evaluation is specific to the country in which the evaluation is taking place.

4. Protection profile is things scuh as firewalls, or antivirus software that protect the systems or machines. Security target is a document that contains the security specific requirements of a product that is being evaluated and seeing if it meets those requirements.


Lecture 78:

1. The overall goal is to identify the possible threats, and then come up with security policies that help subvert the threats.

2. Various parts are the threats to the system, security objectives, security requirements, and environmental assumptions.

3. The purpose of the matrix on slide 7 is to map from the threats/assumptions to security objectives/requirements to see the relationship.


Lecture 79:

1. The overall goal is to map the security requirements of the target, as well as give security requirements and how the htreats are countered.


2. Target evaluations is analyzing a whole system and seeing if it meets all of the security requirements that it says it does. Protection profile evaluation is the verification of a single device to see what the threats may be and the security systems in place to counter those threats.


Lecture 80:

1. EALs are levels of assurance of how good a security product is. They are used to rank security products that are being sold.

2. NIST performs the Common Criteria evaluations in the US, and other countries have their own testing labs..

3. The higher EALs are not necessarily mutually recognized by various countries because that is a very high level of assurance and its hard to know if one country is not just saying that is has an EAL5 or higher when it may be less than that. Countries don't want to take that risk and so they will independently verify if it is EAL5 or higher and not just take a country's word for it.

4. Vendors cannot certifiy their own products becuase they have bias towards the product and also may lie and say that it has a higher EAL level that it actually does.

5. Its bad to reverse engineer the model from code because that means that someone else is able to do that. If you can reverse engineer the model from code then you can see how the model works and that leaves it vulnerable to attacks.
