Questions Week 5
Richard Salazar
rs38783
Due 7/10/14

Lecture 66:
	1Q: What is PGP?
		1A: Pretty good privacy, used to encrypt files.

	2Q: What motivated Phil Zimmerman to develop it?
		2A: He had a strong distrust of the government.

	3Q: Does PGP provide effective security?
		3A: Yes.

	4Q: If PGP is freeware, why would anyone bother to purchase support?
		4A: Companies might buy the support, instead of having one person in charge on maintaining that.

Lecture 67:
	1Q: Explain the PGP authentication protocol.
		1A: Sender sends a signed hash of the message, the Reciever knowing it came from S using it's private key.

	2Q: Explain the PGP confidentiality protocol.
		2A: It generates a random session K and encyrpts the message with it. Then you encrypt the key with the reciever's public key to decrypt the new K and decrypt M with K. It helps with the problem of that asymmetrical keys are very resource heavy.

	3Q: How do you get both authentication and confidentiality?
		3A: You apply the authentication and then the confidentiality protocols.

Lecture 68:
	1Q: Besides authentication and confidentiality, what other "services" does PGP provide?
		1A: compression, email compatibility, Segmentation

	2Q: Why is compression needed?
		2A: You use it to save Bandwidth.

	3Q: Why sign a message and then compress, rather than the other way around?
		3A: You don't want the signature to depend on the compression algorithm.

	4Q: Explain radix-64 conversion and why it's needed?
		4A: It takes 3 octets into four ASCII characters, which helps with email compatability.

	5Q: Why is PGP segmentation needed?
		5A: Certain email systems have strict message length.

Lecture 69:
	1Q: What are the four kinds of keys used by PGP?
		1A: Session, Public, Private, Passphrase-based keys.

	2Q: What special properties are needed of session keys?
		2A: They should have high entropy.

	3Q: How are session keys generated?
		3A: You take the prevous session keys and two n/2 bit blocks generated by user keystrokes and combine them.

	4Q: Assuming RSA is used for PGP asymmetric encryption, how are the keys generated?
		4A: you guess numbers for primality.

	5Q: How are the private keys protected? Why is this necessary?
		5A: with a passphrase. The computer has a encyrpted private key. It needs the passphrase to decrypt.

Lecture 70:
	1Q: If a user has multiple private/public key pairs, how does he know which was used when he receives an encrypted message?
		1A: You generate an ID, the least significate 64-bits of the key. and then you check the rings.

	2Q: What's on a user's private key ring?
		2A:  Timestamp, Key ID, Public Key, Private Key, User ID

	3Q: What's on a user's public key ring?
		3A: Timestamp, Key ID, Public Key, User ID

	4Q: What are the steps in retrieving a private key from the key ring?
		4A: It uses the Key ID to index the ring. Then it asks for a passpharse and uses that to decrypt the key. 

	5Q: What is the key legitimacy field for?
		5A: Its to measure how strongly you believe that public key. 

	6Q: How is a key revoked?
		6A: They issue a signed key revocation certificate.

Lecture 71:
	1Q: Explain the difference between the consumer and producer problems. Which is more prevalent?
		1A: consumer - attacker gets between the client and disrupts the communication.
			producer - they overwelm the server with a multitude of requests.

	2Q: Explain syn flooding.
		2A: They start a lot of TCP protocols, they fill up the servers table and prevents other connections.

	3Q: Why are the first three solutions to syn flooding not ideal?
		3A: 1. The attacker could just send more requests
			2. Slower clients might time-out
			3. Hard to determine susiciousness

Lecture 72:
	1Q: Why does packet filtering work very well to prevent attacks?
		1A: They stop illegitamite requests and help softening the load on the server

	2Q: What are the differences between intrusion detection and intrusion prevention systems?
		2A: detection - checks if an attack has occured
			prevention - attempts to stop an attack BEFORE it occurs.

	3Q: Explain the four different solutions mentioned to DDoS attacks.
		3A: 1.over-provisioning the network - stuffing the network with servers
			2. filtering attack packets - seperate attack and legit packets
			3. slow down processing - slows down everyone.
			4. Speak-up request additional traffic from all requestors. 

Lecture 73:
	1Q: Explain false positive and false negatives. Which is worse?
		1A: false positive - attack not detected
			false negative - might turn off legit traffic

	2Q: Explain what "accurate" and "precise" mean in the IDS context.
		2A: accurate - detects all genuine attacks
			precise - never reports legit behavior as an attack

	3Q: Explain the statement: "It's easy to build an IDS that is either accurate or precise?
		3A:  accurate - turn off all traffic
			 precise  - allow all trafic 

	4Q: What is the base rate fallacy? Why is it relevant to an IDS?
		4A: If you use the amount from traffic that are attacks and the accuracy of your IDS it shows the amount of times you raise a false alarm.

Lecture 74:
	1Q: What did Code Red version 1 attempt to do?
		1A: attempt to infect other machines, DoS whitehouse webpage and deface other webpages with Hacked by Chinese.

	2Q: Why was Code Red version 1 ineffective?
		2A: The seed always start at the same position. So they always had the same IP names. The whitehouse webpage was changed.

	3Q: What does it mean to say that a worm is "memory resident"? What are the impliciations?
		3A: It lived in the RAM so all you needed to do is reboot.

	4Q: Why was Code Red version 2 much more effective than version 1?
		4A: It had a random seed as opposed to static. Wrecked alot of other devices besides computer.

Lecture 75:
	1Q: How was Code Red II related to Code Red(versions 1 and 2)?
		1A: The writer wrote CodeREdII in the code.

	2Q: Why do you suppose Code Red II incorporated its elaborate propogation scheme?
		2A: To more effectivily infect more machines. It also is more likely to infect machines on the same LAN.

	3Q: What did Code Red II attempt to do?
		3A: Infect as many computers as possible.

	4Q: Comment on the implications of a large population of unpatched machines.
		4A: The average computer is liable worms.

	5Q: Comment on the report from Verizon citied on slide 6. What are the lessons of their study?
		5A: People need to patch their machines.

Lecture 76:
	1Q: Why is a certification regime for the secure products necessary and useful?
		1A: It helps order the products and lets the consumer know how well a product matches up.

	2Q: Explain the components of an evalution standard.
		2A: A set of req. defining security functionality
			A  set of assurance req. needed for establishing functional requirements.
			A methodology for determing the functional requirements are met.
			A measure or grade of the how well a system did.

	3Q: Why would crypto devices have a separate evaluation mechanism?
		3A: Because it has a very specified area and there arent many experts in it.

	4Q: Explain the four levels of certification for crypto devices.
		4A: 1. basic security at least one apporved algorithm.
			2. imporved physical security it shows if an attack is made.
			3.Stronger its more resistances.
			4.Erases Data if there is a breach.

Lecture 77:
	1Q: What is the Common Criteria?
		1A: It is used for certification of non-secure devices. It is also common between multiple nations.

	2Q: What's "common" about it?
		2A: They share the criteria between nations.

	3Q: Why would there be any need for "National Schemes"?
		3A: They are country specific schemes.

	4Q: Explain the difference between a protection profile and a security target.
		4A: Security target - checks if the product fits the protection profile.
			Protection profile - It is a document describing a set of requirement for a particular system.

Lecture 78:
	1Q: Explain the overall goal of the protection profile as exemplified by the WBIS example.
		1A: To record the data of the trash companies clients.

	2Q: What is the purpose of the various parts of the protection profile (as exemplified in the WBIS example)?
		2A: To provide an outline of all the threats, assests, goals and assumptions. 

	3Q: What is the purpose of the matrix on slide 7?
		3A: It maps the threats/assumptions to the objectives/requirements. It shows that if every row has an X then you complete the requirements of the threats/assumptions.

Lecture 79:
	1Q: Explain the overall goal of the security target evaluation as exemplified by the Sun Identity Manager example.
		1A: Protect data, and password generation/quality

	2Q: How do you think that a security target evaluations differs from a protection profile evaluation?
		2A: As opposed to the PP the ST focuses on a specific product/system.

Lecture 80:
	1Q: What are the EALs and what are they used for?
		1A: The level the certification is at and show how secure it is.

	2Q: Who performs the Common Criteria evaluations?
		2A: The goverment.

	3Q: Speculate why the higher EALs are not necessarily mutually recognized by various countries.
		3A: Other country's might not like the quality of other country's labs.

	4Q: Can vendors certify thier own products? Why or why not?
		4A: No. That would result in a conflict of interest.

	5Q: If you're performing a formal evaluation, why is probably bad to reverse engineer the model from the code?
		5A: It might not be adaqute for a formal proof. 
