Enam Ayivi
UTEid: aea787
CS ID: eayivi
CS361 Questions: Week 5




Lecture 66

Phil Zimmerman took the best  algorithms available to combine into a strong one

1. What is PGP? Started as an email encryption program devisex by Zimmerman. It is An encryption tool to encrypt data using some of the best cryptographic algorithms.

2. What motivated Phil Zimmerman to develop it? Mistrust of the government

3. Does PGP provide effective security? Yes

4. If PGP is freeware, why would anyone bother to purchase support? To take advantage of support, etc. that private companies provide for their products.


Lecture 67


1. Explain the PGP authentication protocol. S-> R: {h(M)}Ks-1, M. Sender sends a message along with a hash code that is encrypted with the sender's private key. Once the receiver opens it, he knows this message came from the sender.

2. Explain the PGP conﬁdentiality protocol. here we don't have to use public key encryption which takes 10000 as long as symmetric encryption. So we use symmetric key encrition

3. How do you get both authentication and conﬁdentiality? Merge both steps


Lecture 68

1. Besides authentication and conﬁdentiality, what other “services” does PGP provide? COmpression, email compatibility, and segmentation. 

2. Why is compression needed? Save bandwidth.

3. Why sign a message and then compress, rather than the other way around? So the signature applies to original message.

4. Explain radix-64 conversion and why it’s needed? map groups of 24 bits into 4 ascii chars and adds crc for data error checking

5. Why is PGP segmentation needed? Breaks the message into pieces so as to deal with message length.



Lecture 69

1. What are the four kinds of keys used by PGP? Session key (used for symmetric encryption when you ask an email to be created), public/private key, passphares-based keys (to protect private keys)

2. What special properties are needed of session keys?

3. How are session keys generated? Take the previous session key and use keystrokes, timing, mouse movement. 

4. Assuming RSA is used for PGP asymmetric encryption, how are the keys generated? generate two large primes by generating a couple of large number and testing each to see if it is prime.

5. How are the private keys protected? Why is this necessary? Use passphrase-key to store your private key. So type a passphrase, it is hashed, and that is used for the key, then discarded.



Lecture 70

1. If a user has multiple private/public key pairs, how does he know which was used when he receives an encrypted message? PGP generates an ID for the pair: least 64 bits of the key as ID

2. What’s on a user’s private key ring? Own public/private key pairs: this is a table with timestamp, keyID, public key, private key, User ID

3. What’s on a user’s public key ring? Timesatmp, keyID, public key, User ID

4. What are the steps in retrieving a private key from the key ring? lookup the table, retriveve encrypted private key, use the passphrase's hash as key and unincrypt the private key

5. What is the key legitimacy ﬁeld for? It indicates the extent to which PGP trust that a public key belongs to a user.

6. How is a key revoked? Owner issues a signed key revocation certificate


Lecture 71

1. Explain the difference between the consumer and producer problems. Which is more prevalent?  Attacker gets in between the client and server, producer: the attacker flood the producer and he can no longer offer services

2. Explain syn ﬂooding. The attacker send a bunch of SYN attack with a sending address that is bogus, and the server ties up its resource creating a table for each request and waiting for a reply

3. Why are the ﬁrst three solutions to syn ﬂooding not ideal? resources are limited, slowing down traffic is a DOS, hard to know when a packet is legitimate



Lecture 72

1. Why does packet ﬁltering work very well to prevent attacks? They help filter out illegal requests

2. What are the differences between intrusion detection and intrusion prevention systems? The first analizes patterns to detect anomalous ones, the other aggressively block attemtped attacks to prevent intrusions. 

3. Explain the four different solutions mentioned to DDoS attacks. Over-provisioning network (expensive), filtering attack packet (hard to find out which), slow down processing (unfortunately disadvantage eveyrone), speak-up ()




Lecture 73

With IDS, the attack has already begun

1. Explain false positive and false negatives. Which is worse? a harmless behavior is misclassiflied as an attack vs  a genuine attack is not detected

2. Explain what “accurate” and “precise” mean in the IDS context. accurate: detects all genuine attacks, precise never reports legitimate behavior as an attack

3. Explain the statement: “It’s easy to build an IDS that is either accurate or precise? Can flag everything as bad, or flag everything as good.

4. What is the base rate fallacy? Why is it relevant to an IDS? Getting too many false positives which consumes resource and even a 90% system seems bad. So if attacks are relatively rare, you have to get a very high degree of accuracy to have a useful system.




Lecture 74

1. What did Code Red version 1 attempt to do? atacked a bunch of machines then getting them to attack sites later on.

2. Why was Code Red version 1 ineffective? The random number generator was seeded by same number: the same list of machine was generated in every infected computer. The IP address of whitehouse.gov was changed

3. What does it mean to say that a worm is “memory resident”? What are the implications. Memory-resident means the code reside in volatile memory, so can be remove by switching off the computer

4. Why was Code Red version 2 much more effective than version 1? The seed was random. 



Lecture 75

1. How was Code Red II related to Code Red (versions 1 and 2)? The word "Code Red" was written in the code

2. Why do you suppose Code Red II incorporated its elaborate propogation scheme? To be more effective by skipping non-computer machines (located on a different subnet), and likely targeting machine with the same flaws.

3. What did Code Red II attempt to do?

4. Comment on the implications of a large population of unpatched machines. It will keep things infected 

5. Comment on the report from Verizon cited on slide 6. What are the lessons of their study? People are bad at patching machines, and it makes the internet much more vulnerable.


Lecture 76

1. Why is a certiﬁcation regime for secure products necessary and useful? we have a standard way of independently agreeing that something is does its intended purpose

2. Explain the components of an evaluation standard. A set of requirement defining security functionality, assurance requirements, functional requirements, and measurement.

3. Why would crypto devices have a separate evaluation mechanism? Requires specific skillsets. 

4. Explain the four levels of certiﬁcation for crypto devices. First is basic, second is improved physical, tamper-proof, three strong tamperr-resistance, four: complete envelope 


Lecture 77


1. What is the Common Criteria? A set of documents and a methodology for evaluating products. 

2. What’s “common” about it? Many countries accept them

3. Why would there be any need for “National Schemes”?  Trusting friends is not always a good idea.

4. Explain the difference between a protection proﬁle and a security target. The first is a document describing a set of security requirements for a class of systems vs a product evaluated against a protection profile.



Lecture 78

1. Explain the overall goal of the protection proﬁle as exempliﬁed by the WBIS example. Ensuring the proper person is billed the proper amount. 

2. What is the purpose of the various parts of the protection proﬁle (as exempliﬁed in the WBIS example)? detect invalid ID tags, invalid bin-cleared messages, fault tolerance. . Overall is data authenticaion, internal transfer integrity

3. What is the purpose of the matrix on slide 7? maps of threats/assumptions to objectives/requirements, to make sure all the threats have matching solutions. 



Lecture 79

1. Explain the overall goal of the security target evaluation as exempliﬁed by the Sun Identity Manager example. Stating the threats and the way they are dealt with by that system.

2. How do you think that a security target evaluation differs from a protection proﬁle evaluation? The protection profile says what the system is evaluated against. 


Lecture 80


1. What are the EALs and what are they used for? These reflects how much evidence has been provided to show that the system success in what they are testing for. 

2. Who performs the Common Criteria evaluations? Government of a country, or at lower level byt the 

3. Speculate why the higher EALs are not necessarily mutually recognized by various countries. Trust between friendlies is not 

4. Can vendors certify their own products? Why or why not? No, conflict of interest/ 

5. If you’re performing a formal evaluation, why is it probably bad to reverse engineer the model from the code? Not a formal model of processing. 

Requirements - Functional Specs - High Level Design - Low level design - Implementation