Name: Drew Zoellner
EID: dtz64
CS Login: drew2222
Email: andrewzoellner@hotmail.com
CS361 Questions: Week 4

Lecture 53
1. Why is it important for a digital signature to be non reusab
le?

If a digital signature is discovered by a villain he or she won't get multiple
accesses that are unauthorized into the system. 

2. Why is it the hash of the message typically signed, rather t
han the message itself?

The hash is the "encrypted" aspect of the message that should be decoded later
and the signature on that hash allows for authorized decryption of the message.
The message should never be recovered by a villain anyways.

3. What assurance does R gain from the interchange on slide 4?

R is assured to be secure and ready to read if the message M is signed.

Lecture 54
1. What is the importance of certificate authorities?

Certificate authorities can sign messages and allow them to be read by certain
users. They allocate some permissions within the system.

2. In the example on slide 5, why does X sign the hash of the first
message with its private key?

X is the president of the company and thus attempts to give Y access to certain
information by signing his or her certificate.

3. Why is it necessary to have a hash of Y and Ky?

Having these hashes allow for secure communication between Y and Ky since others
might not have access to reading this message. We know that Ky does however.

4. What would happen if Z had a public key for X, but it was not tr
ustworthy?

Information leaks would cause anything that X had in confidence to be leaked to
the public.

Lecture 55
1. What happens at the root of a chain of trust?

There is some unimpeachable authority.

2. Why does an X.509 certificate include a “validity interval
”?

There is some set of users that are trusted to read this certificate.

3. What would it mean if the hash and the received value did not
match?

This means that the message might have been corrutpted somewhere in communication.


Lecture 56
1. What are some protocols previously discussed?

Some of these protocols were necessary in understanding previous material.

2. What may happen if one step of a protocol is ignored?

The whole protocol might be comprimised causing a villain access to unauthorized
material.

3. Why must the ciphers commute in order to accomplish the task in slide 4?

The message must move from one party to another.

4. Describe how an attacker can extract M from the protocol in
slide 6.

A->B + B->A + A-> B , cancels to leave M

5. Describle how an attacker can extract
Ka from the protocol in slide 6.2. 

B->A + A->B (3)

6. Describle how an attacker can extract Kb from the protocol in slide 6.

A->B + B->A , cancels except for Kb

7. Why are cryptographic protocols difficult to design and ea
sy to get wrong?

There can be many way for an attacker to manipulate protocols to isolate information.

Lecture 57
1. Explain the importance of protocols in the context of the i
nternet.

Protocols protect information from falling into the hands of an attacker.

2. Explain the importance of cryptographic protocols in the
context of the internet.

Cryptographic protocols allow for information to be sent in a way that even
when intercepted can't be read by the attacker.

3. What are the assumptions of the protocol in slide 6?

A shares a secret key K with B

4. What are the goals of the protocol in slide 6?

Each party should authenticate to the other party.

5. Are the goals of the protocol in slide 6 satisfied? Explain.

By following the simple protocol explained on slide 6, With this protocol each 
party must use the other party for authentication.

6. How is the protocol in slide 6 flawed?

If one party isn't present the information could be lost.


Lecture 58
1. Why is it important to know if a protocol includes unnecess
ary steps or messages?

Unnessessary steps or messages could cause the reciver to misread the data so
its important that all unesscary steps are thrown out to extract the correct
message.

2. Why is it important to know if a protocol encrypts items tha
t could be sent in the clear?

The reciever might read the items "as is" since it could be sent in the clear 
and would therefore be reading the encrypted message.

Lecture 59
1. Why might it be difficult to answer what constitutes an atta
ck on a crypto-graphic protocol?

The might be many different ways to attack this prtocol and identifying them
might be a difficult task.

2. Describe potential dangers of a replay attack.

Replay attacks could gain access to unauthorized materials in the system.

3. Are there attacks where an attacker gains no secret inform
ation? Explain.

Yes, failed attacks would result in this situation since the attacker gets
no information from the attack.

4. What restrictions are imposed on the attacker?

The attacker must obey by rules instantiated by the system but can manipulate 
these rules in such a way that unwanted results occur.

5. Why is it important that protocols are asynchronous?

This way one protocol can't compromise another.

Lecture 60
1. Would the Needham-Schroeder protocol work without nonce
s?

No

2. For each step of the NS protocol, answer the two questions o
n slide 5.

1. A and B, the message A
2. B and A, the message A
3. A, A
4. Nothing, nothing
5. Nothing, nothing

Lecture 61
1. As in slide 5, if A’s key were later changed, after having
K as compromised, how could A still be impersonated?

No

2. Is it fair to ask the question of a key being broken?

Yes

3. How might you address these flaws if you were the protocol de
signer?

I would change keys frequently.

Lecture 62
1. What guarantees does Otway-Rees seem to provide to A and B?

A and B recieve different keys.

2. Are there guarantees that Needham-Schroeder provides th
at Otway-Rees does not or vice versa?

Yes

3. How could you fix the flawed protocol from slide 4?

Prevent C from using the system or changing the protocol so that K can't be 
extracted from C->B + B->C.

Lecture 63
1. Why is the verification of protocols important?

One must know that the protocol is an allowed protocol within the system.

2. What is a belief logic?

Logic that determines if a set of protocols can leak information.

3. A protocol is a program; where do you think beliefs come in?

A person that has come to a conclusion about the logic of the program.

Lecture 64
1. What is a modal logic?

The correct logic for protocols to use to not allow attackers to extract 
unwanted messages.

2. Explain the intuition behind the message meaning inferen
ce rule.

Inference rule means that because an attacker knows one thing, he or she
can therefore obtain information about another thing.

3. Explain the intuition behind the nonce verification infer
ence rule.

This is essentially as the answer above except that verification is required.

4. Explain the intuition behind the jurisdiction inference
rule.

This has to do with the protocols of the system. If the prtocols infer that 
a user can do something.

5. What is idealization and why is it needed?

This is perfection based on modal logic, it is needed to prevent attacks.


Lecture 65
1. Why do you think plaintext is omitted in a BAN idealization
?

Plaintext could be obtained by an unwanted user.

2. Some idealized steps seem to refer to beliefs that will hap
pen later in the
protocol. Why would that be?

Prediction of future protocols can prevent some attacks due to inferences of those protocols.

3. One benefit of a BAN proof is that it exposes assumptions. Ex
plain that.

It allows everyone in the system, attackers or creators to be aware of inferenced data gained from protocols.

