Name: Adan Briones
EID: asb2227
CS Login: adanb26
Email: adidan26@yahoo.com


Lecture 66
	1. PGP is an encryption system developed by Phil Zimmerman with the goal of providing extremely strong encryption to the masses.
	2. Phil Zimmerman was motivated by his distrust in the government.
	3. Yes, multiple examples show that even the U.S. government could not decrypt PGP-encrypted files.
	4. Companies who may need support or maintenance will buy from a company who offers such things, and freeware can't provide either.

Lecute 67
	1. Sender creates a message M, Sender computes hash of M, Sender signs the hash with his private key and prepends it to M, Receiver uses Sender's public key to verify signature and get hash, 
		Receiver computes new hash for M and compares it with the decrypted hash.
	2. Sender generates message M and a random session key K, M is encrypted using K, K is encrypted using recipient's public key and prepended to M, Receiver recovers session key with private key, 
		receiver decrypts message with session key.
	3. Apply the authentication steps to the original message and the confidentiality steps on the resulting message.

Lecture 68
	1. PGP also provides compression, Email compatibility, and segmentation.
	2. Compression is needed to reduce bandwith of the message.
	3. A message is signed before compression so that the signature does not depend on the compression algorithm.
	4. Radix-64 conversion maps groups of three octets to four ASCII characters and is needed so that ASCII text can be converted.
	5. Segemntation is needed because email systems often restrict message length. Segmentation breaks the message into smaller pieces if it is too large. This way the message can still be sent and reassembled.

Lecture 69
	1. PGP uses one-time session symmetric keys, public keys, private keys, and passphrase-based symmetric keys.
	2. Each session key should only be associated with one message and only used once.
	3. A new n-bit key is generated from a previous session key and two n/2 bit blocks are generated from keystrokes and mouse movement. The two blocks are encrypted with the previous key and an encryption algorithm E
		to form the new key.
	4. Keys are generated by generating an odd, prime number of sufficient size.(> 200 bits)
	5. Private keys are stored encrypted with a user-supplied passphrase. This is necessary because the security of the system depends on protecting private keys.

Lecture 70
	1. PGP uses the least significant 64-bits of the key as an ID for each user. This way the recipient of a message can know which key to use to decrypt the message.
	2. A user's private key ring contains timestamps, key IDs, public keys, private keys, and a user IDs for each public/private key pair.
	3. A user's public key ring contains timestamps, key IDs, public keys, and user IDs for each public key.
	4. PGP retrieves the sender's private key from the key ring using the user ID as an index. If no ID is supplied, the first private key is used.
	5. The key legitimacy field indicates the extent to which PGP trusts that this is a valid public key for a user.
	6. The user issues a signed key revocation certificate. Recipients are expected to update their public-key rings.

Lecture 71
	1. The consumer problem involves the attacker getting logically between the client and service, while the producer problem is the result of an attacker overloading a server.
		The producer problem is more prevelant.
	2. Syn flooding involves the TCP connection with a server. Normally, a client sends a syn packet to a server, the server replies with a Syn/ACK packet and waits for the client response.
		Syn flooding is when an attacker forges the return address sent to the server and overloads the server making it unavailable to legitimate clients.
	3. The first could consume too many resources, the second coiuld dissalow connections from slower clients, and the third could be hard to determine or implement.

Lecture 72
	1. Packet filtering works well because it detects patterns of identifiers in request streams and can block messages with certain patterns.
	2. Intrusion detection monitors a system and reacts after an attack has begun, while intrusion prevention attempts to block attacks before they begin.
	3. Over-provisioning the network suggests having too many servers to overwhelm, filtering attack packets suggests somehow distinguishing attack packets from regular packets and blocking them,
		slowing down processing, and the "speak up" solution suggests requesting additional information from all requestors.

Lecture 73
	1. False positives occur when legitimate traffic is identified as an attack, and false negatives occur when an attack is not detected. It depends how critical your data is to determine which is worse.
	2. An IDS is accurate if it detects all genuine attacks, and an IDS is precise if it never identifies harmless behavior as an attack.
	3. Its easy to build an IDS that is accurate or precise because you can either flag all activity as attacks or as harmless behavior.
	4. The base-rate fallacy is a problem faced by IDS's that aren't accurate in which there is a high chance of a false positive. It is relevant to an IDS because it affects inefficient IDS's and could render them useless.

Lecture 74
	1. Code Red 1 attempted to infect machines, launch a DoS attack of the white house, and deface some websites.
	2. It used a tatic seed in its random number generator, each machine probed the same list of machines, and the IP address of the white house was changed so the DoS attack failed.
	3. Memory resident means that the worm resided in the volatile memory of a machine. This means a machine could be disinfected by rebooting it.
	4. Code Red 2 was more effective because it used a random seed instead of a static seed.

Lecture 75
	1. Code Red II and Code Red are related because they both targeted the  buffer-overflow vulnerability in Microsoft's IIS webservers.
	2. The elaborate propagation scheme allowed the virus to infect much more machines than Code Red 1 and 2 in a more efficient manner.
	3. Code Red II attempted to set up a backdoor on infected machines.
	4. The population if unpatched machines shows that there was still a poulation of vulnerable machines that could circulate the worm.
	5. The lessons include that we should do better patching our machines and that the internet is more vulnerable than we may think.

Lecture 76
	1. A certification regime allows products to be rated and compared, and gives users this information in a way that is easy to understand.
	2. An evaluation standard consists of a set of requirements defining security functionality, a set of assurance requirements, a methodology for determining
		that the functional requirements are met, and a measure of the evaluation result.
	3. Crypto devices have a separate evaluation mechanism because cryptology a sensitive area with fewer experts than other areas of security.
	4. Level one is basic security with atleast one approved algorithm, level two has improved physical activity such as tamper-evident packaging, 
		level three has strong tamper-resistance or countermeasures, and level four has a complete envelope of proection including immediate zeroing of keys upon tampering.

Lecture 77
	1. The Common Criteria is the standard secure systems evaluation criteria.
	2. It is "common" because it was developed and accepted as the standard accross 26 countires including the U.S.
	3. National schemes allow a nation to customize the criteria, to a certain level, to suit their specific needs.
	4. A protection profile is a formal description of security for a class of systems, while a security target is a specific system or family of systems.

Lecture 78
	1. The goal of the protection profile is to define or describe security for bin clearing systems.
	2. The various parts of the protection profile provide an outline of a securiy system for a class of objects.
	3. This matrix shows which threats have a corresponding mechanism to counter them, and the assumptions have mechanisms that validate the assumption.

Lecture 79
	1. The goal of the security target evaluation was to evaluate the security of the Sun Identity Manager.
	2. A security target evaluation evaluates the security of a specific product, while a protection profile is a description or definition of security for a class of products.

Lecture 80
	1. EALs are levels of assurance and they are used to describe the level of security of a given product.
	2. Common criteria evaluations are performed by independent orginizations that are accredited to perform CC testing.
	3. High EALs may not be recognized between countries because countries want to ensure that a high EAL is confirmed before they allow the high EAL to be marketed in their country.
		Also, high EAL requirements may differ between countries due to national schemes used by various countries.
	4. No. The certification must be done by an independent, accredited organization so that the certification can be trusted.
	5. It is probably bad because the code would not have been developed from formal methods. This would mean that the code and resulting model would not satisfy a formal evaluation.



