Name:Drew Zoellner
EID:dtz64
CS Login:drew2222
Email:andrewzoellner@hotmail.com



Lecture 34

1. C/h is the bound on the average transfer rate of a signal because it uses entropy which is a bound on the minimum number of bits on average used.

2.Increasing redundancy will add more bits to a certain message so that the receiver can decipher what is noise and what is the actual message being sent.

Lecture 35

1. h = 3.32

2. There can be many different characters used in a natural language. There can be an arbitrarily large amount of combinations of symbols.

3. Zero order models are where the symbols are independent of each other. First order model means that one symbol depends on one other symbol and second order models is where each symbol is dependent on two other symbols.

Lecture 36

1. Prior probabilities sometime can’t be computed since the data could be lost or the symbols have changed.

2. For example if an observer doesn’t know the decoding methods for a message then it won’t have any information content.

3. Entropy is the least number of bits on average and redundancy increases the number of bits on average.

Lecture 37

1.Cryptography on Captain Kidd’s message increased the time it took to send it but hid the identity of the contents of the message from an interceptors of it.

2. A key might provide the information on how to decrypt or encrypt some data. This would be optimal because many keys could be generated so if one was discovered many more still exist and only a small amount of data is lost.

3. Encrypting a file should have no affect on its information content.

4. Redundancy can give clues because any repeated patterns can be found and then the things between the patterns are the information.

Lecture 38

1. P(P(P))

2. P(D)

3. Patterns in encrypted messages can lead to decoding of the decryption keys because any patterns can be reverted for the original message.

4.The properties of a language such as the number of symbols in the language can give the cryptanalyst an idea of how many symbols need to be figured out.

Lecture 39

1. Even though an algorithm might be possible to break there may be too many combinations of keys to try to break it in less than 100 years or more.

2. If every combination is tried, there would only need to be 2^(n-1) operations to find the key.

3. They scramble the bits around in a way that make it difficult to decode.

4. Confusion: transforming information in plaintext so that an
interceptor cannot readily extract it.
Diﬀusion:spreading the information from a region of plaintext
widely over the ciphertext.

5. Confusion

Lecture 40

1. Monoalphabetic substitution changes one letter while polyalphabetic substitution changes two or more letters.

2. plain alphabet : abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz
cipher alphabet: phqgiumeaylnofdxjkrcvstzwb
(taken from practical cryptography.com)

3. The transfer process requires k^2 to create a square of data and since repeats don’t count, there is k! mappings.

4. key: monit orsto gotot hebat hroom

5. 26^2

6. Yes

7. AES substitution step.


Lecture 41

1.English alphabet has 26 letters so xyy encodes 26^3 = 17576.

2. 26 x 25 = 650. 650 is reduced by a factor of 27 compared to 17576.

3. Yes, there will be a cipher called the one-time pad!

Lecture 42

1. Since no reduction of search space is obtained from the encryption algorithm or the cipher text.

2. The key must be random in a one-time pad so that nobody else can find a pattern in the key making and no information is lost.

3. How do the sender and receiver agree on a secret key that they can use to decrypt the data?

Lecture 43

1. The original letters still occur in the end data and might be obtained by someone not authorized to view that data.

Lecture 44

1. Symmetric

2. Key distribution is how different users get a key while management focuses on how those keys are deciphered and used to convert data back into its original form.

3. No, the person would also need private keys if they only had public keys to access the information since the public keys don’t allow the data to be deciphered alone.

4. Public systems allow good accessibility with a low chance to be deciphered while the symmetric encryption is worse since it’s easier to decipher.

Lecture 45

1.  Block ciphers might increase throughput of a channel by allowing the encrypted text to be sent as an entire block.

2. Malleable encryption algorithms allow for changes to be made in the plaintext, this could  then be reversed.

3. With homomorphic encryption someone in the CS industry could chain together services without compromising the data being visible when flowing from one service to another.

Lecture 46

1. mixColumns by replacing the columns

2. addRoundKey by XOR’ing with a round key

3. There are more steps in decryption than in encryption.

4. Blocks are the chunks of data to be changed and encrypted while rounds are the number of times to perform certain steps for a better encrypted block of data.

5. Increasing the number of rounds can make the data encrypted in a way that is harder to decrypt. The more rounds, the more secure the data is.

Lecture 47

1. ECB MODE results in data that is encrypted, but it is not as secure as it could be since the data is similar to the original data.

2. This flaw can be fixed by Cipher Block Chaining.

3. CBC could result in a content leak.

4. It produces more keys per unit time and produces them in a recoverable form so that the keys can be deciphered by the receiver.

Lecture 48

1. Secret keys are keys that are used to decipher the encrypted text and must be secret compared to the public keys.

2. one-way function allows identification in a key system.

3. The data is more secure and public keys can be viewed by everyone without giving away integrity of the system.

4. PP

5. Symmetric algorithms are faster because they only have one method of decrypting and encrypting.

Lecture 49

1. No, private keys can’t be switched with public keys since the private keys give the method to decrypt the data which would be an integrity problem for the system.

2. RSA relies on factoring large numbers but prime numbers don’t have any factors and are bad in this case.

3. Yes

4. It would take too long to decipher the message trying all the possibilities of keys.

5. A can’t decipher the data to know where it came from.

6. The sub letter b allows for A to know that it originated with B.

7. They must decipher the key to allow decryption of the message.
 
8. B must use a private key that only A has access to. This way no one interception the message can use the public key to decrypt the message to its original content.

Lecture 50

1. This speeds up the decryption time for the receiver. 

2. A function f is (strong) collision resistant if it is hard to ﬁnd two messages m1 and m2 such that f(m1) = f(m2).

3. A function f is pre image resistant if, given h, it is hard to find and m such that h = f(m). For second, m1=/=m2.

4. There will be fewer outcomes.

5. There will be more outcomes.
 
6. In a secure communications system, the correct transmission of messages may override confidentiality concerns.

7. It binds the bytes of a file together

8. Using a hash function.

Lecture 51

1. No, an eavesdropper can intercept the message.

2. No, because only S can do the inner encryption.

3. Yes

4. Confidentiality and Authentication because one must be able to view the data to decrypt it and one must be able to log in to view the data.

Lecture 52

1. The eavesdropper would obtain the key and therefore would be able to decrypt the message.

2. The eavesdropper would obtain the key and therefore would be able to decrypt the message.


3. Nothing would happen, the eavesdropper could not obtain any data.
