Name: Taylor Gregston
EID: teg282
CS Login: teg282
Email: gregstont@gmail.com

Lecture 1:
  1. personal security, energy security, network security, homeland security
  2. They all protect an asset from a specified threat.
  3. Yes, by using a password which was easily guessed someone gained access to my paypal account.
  4. There is a low likelihood that my laptop is infected.  I do not frequent questionable websites and am very careful what I download and install.  However there are always 0-day exploits that I may not be aware of.
  5. I use the built in firewall in MacOSX.  Safari and Firefox also give warnings for questionable websites.
  6. I think they are mostly effective, however it is difficult if not impossible to have a completely secure system.
  7. I think the quote is somewhat accurate.  There is a possibility that an adversary could do these things but it require a lot of knowledge of the system and its vulnerabilities.  To say that this access would "challenge our existence" may be a bit extreme.  Our lives could easily be altered, but I doubt our nation would cease to exist.
  8. It can allow you to assess the risks that you are prone to.  For example, if you are aware that public wi-fi networks are insecure, maybe you shouldn't send credit card information through it.
  
Lecture 2:
  1. There is an asymmetry between the attackers and the programmer.  There are several attackers that need only to find one bug, while the programmer has to fix all of them.
  2. No, you can never achieve perfect security. Even if you have fixed all bugs, the system is susceptible to misuse and abuse.
  3. The programmer is required to find every single vulnerability in the program.  An attacker only has to find one, and there are usually multiple attackers.  The attackers have a huge advantage.
  4. Yes I agree. Complex system will always have an unknown vulnerability.
  5. Perfect security does not allow functionality.  For example, a complex password increases security but decreases usability and simplicity.
  
Lecture 3:
 1. The possibility that a particular threat will adversely impact an information system by exploiting a particular vulnerability.
 2. Yes.  You have to assume there will be some kind of breach of security. We need to be able to handle this breach and minimize the potential loss.
 3. I accept the risk of driving a car everyday.  I avoid the risk of smoking ciggarettes.  I mitigate the risk of a car crash by wearing a seat belt.  I transfer the risk of totalling my car to an insurance agency.
 4. ALE can be helpful to see the consequence of risks but it does not tell the whole story.  A high loss with very low incidence still needs to be accounted for, even if the ALE is relatively low.
 5. Incidence, Loss amount, technical, economic, psychological, and also ability to mitigate risk.
 
Lecture 4:
 1. Slide 2 are the aspects of security you are trying to accomplish, and slide 3 lists the mechanisms used to acheive those aspects.
 2. Integrity because if my bank accounts suddenly went to zero I would be in big trouble.  However, if everybody can see my account balances, it is not the end of the world.
 3. It means to arrange data into groups with similar sensitivity. ie, Top Secret vs unclassified.
 4. If somebody gets fired or promoted their access levels will change.
 5. With reliability you get availability. Availability infers reliability.
 6. For example when purchasing something on Amazon, you want to be the only person accessing your account, and after you make a purchase you don't want amazon to be able to deny the purchase ever happened.
 
Lecture 5:
 1. For a cell network: Don't allow conversiotions to be eavesdropped on and don't allow people to impersonate others. For a military database: Don't allow unauthorized access or modification.
 2. The policy is what makes use of security mechanisms to achieve the metapolicy.
 3. Don't allow students to change grades. Don't allow students to view other students records. Allow concurrent access so nobody gets locked out.
 4. Yes. A student may want to change his or her grade, and the professors will not want them to be able to change their grade.
 5. Don't allow personal information about students to be easily available to prevent identiity theft.
 6. If you don't know the general idea of what needs to be done, it is hard to enforce it.
 
Lecture 6:
 1. The military has alot of secrets that could put people in harm if the knowledge was widespread (ie: location and names of secret agents.)  There are also aspects of availabilty and integrity because you need to be able to access the information and don't want the info to be falsified.
 2. The major threat is the leak of information or the flow of information downward.
 3. This system does not consider integrity because someone at a low level can modify higher level information.
 4. There are different levels of security and also a list of need-to-know categories.  A user of a certain security level can only access categories they have been specifically been allowed to access.
 5. Strong tranquility makes sure that the categories can't be changed once they've been created.
 6. The Normandy invasion is scheduled for June 6, The British have broken the German Enigma codes, Col. Jones just got a raise, Col. Smith didn’t get a raise, The base softball team has a game tomorrow at 3pm, The cafeteria is serving chopped beef on toast today
 7. Normandy: Top Secret: {War, Strategy}, Enigma: Top Secret: {Crypto}, Jones,Smith: Classified: {Personel}, Softball: Unclassified: {Recreation}, Cafeteria: Unclassified: {Food}
 8. A folder with mixed information must be labeled to protect the information at the highest hierarchical level and protect all categories of information.
 
Lecture 7:
 1. Each person has a secure login with a security label.
 2. Labels on documents indicate the sensitivity of the contained information. Labels on humans indicate classes of information that person is authorized to access.
 3. Documents are files and humans are users.
 4. It makes sense otherwise everybody would have access to information they don't need.  This keeps secrets more secret.
 5. They make sense because when access is allowed the clearance dominates the sensitivity and vice versa.
 
Lecture 8:
 1. So we can generalize the problems.
 2. There are security labels A and B such that neither A >= B nor B >= A.
 3. There are security labels A and B such that neither A >= B nor B >= A.
 4. They would have to be equal.
 5. A subject can have read access if their label is equal or greater than the object they are trying to read.
 6. Because (Ls,Cs) >= (Lo,Co) is necessary but not sufficient.

Lecture 9:
 1. Someone with access to a Top Secret document can copy information into a document that is unclassified.
 2. So information doesn't get written down into a lower clearance, ie from Top Secret to Unclassified.
 3. With computers we also have to consider all the processes and programs that are being run under that user.
 4. Write access is allowed if the object dominates the subject.
 5. The levels must be equal.
 6. Using simple security and the * property the general can not send orders to the soldier. The general would have to log out of his Top Secret account and log in with an Unclassified account to send the order.
 7. Yes it is problem, any lower label can overwrite higher labeled data.  It is an integrity problem.
 
Lecture 10:
 1. You can change the subject's labels as long as it does not violate the goals of simple security and the * property.
 2. We don't use strong tranquility all the time because we may need to change the labels associated with a subject when they join or leave projects.
 3. When lowered the level of an object it allow for more subjects to read it.
 4. It is secure as long as it contains no other information that is of a higher label.
 
Lecture 11:
 1. You could have 2 levels and give the users the high level and the objects the low level.
 2. The matrix would become huge for most realistic systems.

Lecture 12:
 1.    H{A}
     /  |  \
    /   |   \
  L{A}  |   H{}
    \   |   /
     \  |  /
       L{}
 2. The LUB would be the label above where both arrows meet.  The GLB would be the label below where both arrows meet.
 3. That information cannot flow downwards.
 
Lecture 13:
 1. It ensures that information cannot flow downward. Cannot read up and cannot write down.
 2. The read checks the labels and only reads if the subjects level is higher than the object. The write checks the labels and writes if the objects level is above the subjects level.
 3. Create will create an object with a given label only if it does not exist (will not overwrite). Destroy only destroys something if the level of the subject is lower than the object.
 4. The read has to return a value (in this case a zero) when the security level check fails.
 5. So that the channel can be used again to send more bits of information.
 6. No they are the same.  The only difference is the return values of the read (whether it reads or not).
 7. They have to be the same because we don't know whether we are transmitting a 0 or 1.
 8. Yes so that it can transmit two different values. Otherwise it would always be the same.
 9. Sh can send information to Sl via the state of the object that Sl tries to read.

Lecture 14:
 1. Because talking is designed for user communication. A covert channel is utilizing system resources that were not designed to be used for inter-subject communication.
 2. No because it is not communicating via a system resource which is not deisgned for inter-subject communication.
 3. It resides in the error messages that are recieved upon access from Sl.
 4. Sl would check the clock and determine whether that time slice is interpreted as a 0 or 1.
 5. The bit is determined by which read is done first, which is dependant upon the other process.
 6. The bit is determined by which path the program executes.
 7. You would have to set some amount of time for the timeout, and you would have to wait this long every time you wanted to send the bit that corresponded to the timeout.
 8. You would have to have access to the energy consumption and also be able to read the amount.
 9. Any device that can be easily turned on or off, which would show a significant change in power consumption.
 
Lecture 15:
 1. While running on a real processor covert channels can operate at thousands of bits pre second without any noticable affect on performance.
 2. It would be very difficult if not impossible to uncover/detect every covert channel.
 3. We can eliminate it by modifying the system implementation, we can introduce noise to reduce the bandwidth, or we can monitor it for patterns of usage that indicate someone is trying to exploit it.
 4. Both the sender and receiver must have access to some shared attribute, the sender must modify the attribute, the reciever must be able to reference the attribute, and a mechanism for initiating both processes and sequencing their actions.
 5. When a higher level user creates a file and then a lower level user tries to modify the file.  The lower user will have one of two outcomes which can represent two different values (0 or 1).
 
Lecture 16:
 1. The create doesn't return any information about whether it failed or succeeded.
 2. Because the sender can modify the data and the reciever can read the data.
 3. No because a column represents a single operation.
 4. To try to find potential covert channels.
