UTEID: hkl289
CS login: hanahx3
Email: hanah.luong@utexas.edu

LECTURE 66:
1. (Pretty Good Privacy) a highly encrypted algorithm that police and FBI were unable 
2. He did not trust government and believe everyone had absolutely right to privacy
3. very much
4. yes, it is free

LECTURE 67:
1. - Sender creates a message M.
	- Sender generates a hash ofM.
	- Sender signs the hash using his private key and prepends the
	result to the message.
	- Receiver uses the sender’s public key to verify the signature 
	and recover the hash code.
	- Receiver generates a new hash code for
	M and compares it with the decrypted hash code.
2.-Sender creates a message M.
	-Sender generates a hash of M.
	- Sender signs the hash using his private key and prepends the
	result to the message.
	- Receiver uses the sender’s public key to verify the signature
	and recover the hash code.
	- Receiver generates a new hash code for M
	and compares it with the decrypted hash code.
3. -Apply the authentication step to the original message.
	-Apply the conﬁdentiality step to the resulting message.3.

LECTURE 68: 
1. 1- authenication
	2- confidentiality
	3- compression
	4- email - compatibility
	5- segmentation
2. signature > compression > encryption
3. so the signature does not depend on the compression algorithm
4.
5. specifically for the messages that are too long

LECTURE 69:
1. Session key, public, private, passphrase - based
2. associated with a single msg, used only once. They key is 
generated from a previous session key and two n/2bit blocks
3. It uses an a previous session key and two n/2-bit blocks 
generated based on user keystrokes, including keystroke timing.
4. For new RSA keys, an odd number n of sufficient size is generated 
and tested for primality. If it is not prime, then repeat with another 
randomly generated number, until a prime is found.  
5. The private key is stored encrypted with a user-supplied 
passphrase. This is necessary because whenever the user wants 
to access the private key, he must supply the passphrase.

LECTURE 70
1. Generate an ID likely to be unique for a given user. 
2. Has the timestamp, key ID, public key, private key, and the user ID. 
3. Has the timestamp, key ID, public key, and User ID. 
4. The reciever retrieves the private key from the private-key 
ring.PGP, using the Key ID field in the session key component of 
the message as an index. Then the user is asked for the passphrase 
to recover the unencrypted private key. Finally PGP recovers the 
session key and decrypts the message.
5. To indicate if PGP trusts that this is a valid public key for this user.
6. The owner issues a signed key renovation certificate. Recipients are 
expected to update their public-key rings. 

LECTURE 71
1. - Consumer problem: the attacker gets logically between the client 
	and service and somehow disrupts the communication.
  	- Producer problem: the attacker produces, offers or requests so 
  	many services that the server is overwhelmed.
 	- The producer problem is more prevalent.
2. This transaction may involve some handshake. When attacker does not 
respond and the server halts access to resources, waiting for a response. 
3. Increasing the queue size could consumer considerable 
resources. Shortening the time-out period might disallow connections 
by slower clients.

LECTURE 72
1. A filter can detect patterns of identifiers in the request stream 
and block messages in that pattern. 
2. An intrusion detection system can analyze traffic patterns and 
react to anomalous patterns. An intrusion prevention system attempts 
to prevent intrusions by more aggressively blocking attempted attacks.
3. - Over-provisioning the network - have too many servers to be overwhelmed.
	- Filtering attack packets - somehow distinguish the attack packets
	from regular packets.
	- slow down processing - disadvantages all requestors, but perhaps 
	disproportionately disadvantages attackers. 
	- speak up solution - request additional traffic from all requestors.

LECTURE 73
1. False negatives, you could think things are fine and not worry about
threats anymore, but there is actually a real danger at hand.
2. -Accurate: detecting all genuine attacks. 
	-Precise: as never reporting legitimate behavior as an attack.
3. It’s difficult to do both simultaneously.
4. The IDS classifies an attack as an attack with probability 90%. 
The IDS classifies a valid connection as attack with probability 10%.

LECTURE 74
1. It tried to analyze a worm that used a static seed in
 its random number generator and generated identical lists 
 of IP address on each infected machine.
2. Each infected machine infected the others.
3. A machine can be disinfected by simply rebooting it.
 but Once-rebooted, the machine remains vulnerable to repeated infection.
4. They could have either crashed or rebooted when an infected machine 
	attempted to send them a copy of the worm.

LECTURE 75
1. Code Red II also generated random IP addresses.
2. Machines on the same network or subnet are likely to be running
 similar software. 
3. machines could be used as zombies for future attacks, because 
Code Red II attemps to put a backdoor in.
4. A large number of machines remained vulnerable to the same or similar attack.
5. Its a very big flaw that left a lot of customer’s information to be hacked.

LECTURE 76
1. It provides a standardized process of independent evaluation
 by expert teams to provide a certified level of confidence for security products.
2. An evaluation standard provides a set of requirements defining
	security functionality, a set of assurance requirements needed for 
	establishing the functional requirements. A methodology for determining
	that the functional requirements are met. A measure of the evaluation result indicating the trustworthiness of the evaluated system.
3. It is designed for protection of sensitive but unclassified information.
4. 1- Basic security; at least one approved algorithm or function.
  2- Improved physical security, tamper-evident packaging.
  3- Strong tamper-resistance and countermeasures.
  4- Complete envelope of protection including immediate zeroing of keys upon tampering.

LECTURE 77
1. the Common Criteria documents are evaluation Methodology, and country-specific 
	evaluation methodologies called an Evaluation Scheme or National Scheme.
2. Evaluations by one signing country are respected by all of the others.
3. May be used internationally.
4. A protection profile is a description of a family of products in terms of threats:
	-environmental issues and assumptions
	-security objectives
	-requirements of the Common criteria
	;The Security Target is a document that contains the security requirements
	of a product to be evaluated and specifies the measures offered by the 
	product to meet those requirements. It may may a protection profile.

LECTURE 78
1. Protecting information that may not be confidential but are still 
	unique such as records that a waste bin was cleared out consisting 
	of bin ID, timestamp, and weight.
2. Detect invalid ID tags, invalid bin-cleared messages, and fault tolerance.
3. Illustrates the components of a protection profile.

LECTURE 79
1. Store properties of users, support automatic generation of passwords,
 	and specify password quality parameters.
2. A security target is a specific system or class of systems 
	submitted for evaluation.

LECTURE 80
1. There are 7 EALs and are for 
	- functionally tested
	- structurally tested
	- methodologically tested and checked
	- methodologically designed
	- tested and reviewed
	- semi formally verified design and tested
	- and formally verified design and tested.
2. The government of the country where the evaluation is performed.
3. Because to be tested at EAL5/EAL6/EAL7 must have been designed 
	using formal methods. Only NSA performs testing for EAL5 and higher.
4. It would be as respected as much as the common criteria.
5. It will corrupt with the process. 

