Nathan Park
ncp299
ncpark92
nathan.c.park@gmail.com

CS361 Questions: Week 1


Lecture 1

1. I would consider personal security, home security, and school security terms of security that are relevant to my everyday life.

2. Each of these has the common theme of "protection of assests against threats."

3. I cannot say that I have been a victim of lax security. I can't think of any moment where any security has failed to protect what I need protected.

4. I would say that the likelihood of my laptop being infected to be very high, possibly even 100% because of the sheer volume of  malware that exists.

5. I have Microsoft Security Essentials and the base firewall running on my laptop.

6. I would say that they are fairly effective in keeping my computer clean.

7. I think that the FBI official is overexagerrating in order to bring attention to flaws that may exist. If there was a way to bring down our country then it would have happened already because of the many enemies that the US has.

8. Learning about computer security is important because it can help me protect myself better and help me protect others better.


Lecture 2

1. Security is hard because everything today is online and connected which means that vulnerabilities can exist everywhere.

2. To an extent you can list out the potential things that could go wrong. This would be done by looking at all the systems that are required and then finding out the potential vulnerabilities in each. 

3. The defender has to think of all possible attacks and vulnerabilities in order to prevent attacks while an attacker only has to find that one crack in the defense in order to deal damage. 

4. I disagree with these quotes because security exists to protect your assests and if you just don't even use the assests or have them buried underground then the attackers have won by making your assests unusable to you.

5. In order for things to be secure, more resources must be concentrated into security which takes away from the resources used in making the program more efficient.


Lecture 3

1. Risk is the possibility that a particular threat will adversely impact an information system by exploiting a particular vulnerability. 

2. I agree that software security is about managing risk because there is no way to ensure that your software is 100% secure.

3. I accept the risk of a car accident everytime I drive to wherever I need to go. I avoid the risk of drunk driving by keeping drinking and driving seperate activities. I mitigate the risk of getting injured in a car accident by wearing a seatbelt. I transfer risk when I pay for insurance.

4. Annualized loss expectancy is a good risk management tool because it allows you to assess where the most damage will be dealt and allow you to protect those areas. 

5. Some factors that are relevent in risk assessment are technical factors, economic factors, psycological factors, ect.

Lecture 4

1. The list on slide 2 are the aspects of computer security which means the things that we are trying to protect. The list on slide 3 are the mechanisms that are used to protect the major aspects listed on slide 2. 

2. I would say that confidentiality is the most important aspect to me because I would like to know that on the internet that I remain anonymous and any information I put on the internet doesn't get used against me.

3. "To group and categorize data" means to consider what information is more sensitive than others.

4. Authoizations might change over time because the data becomes less sensitive or relevent or because the people themselves rise or lower in position.

5. The two are related because sometimes attacks are directed at keeping services from being used like in DoS attacks.

6. Authentication and non-repudiation may be inportant in a case such as Amazon where you would want to know that the money you are sending is really going to Amazon and that they cannot deny that they ever received anything.


Lecture 5

1. A metapolicy for cellphone networks can be that the users will have confidentiality in their calls. The military base would have integrity in their database.

2. The policy provide the specific guidelines of how to fulfill the metapolicy. 

3. Students records may only be seen by the student. Students records may only be changed by the registrar. Students records must be secured so that they may not be changed remotely.

4. The students may want their grades changed by the professor which would not be allowed with the current policy.

5. Students SSNs must be kept confidential.

6. You must understand what you are trying to do before you can place the rules to accomplish that goal. 


Lecture 6

1. Confidentiality of information. You do not want someone to see something they are not meant to see. There are also aspects of integrity involved because you do not want information to be leaked through methods of read/write.

2. The threat in the thought experiment is that there are spies attempting to gain information from the databases.

3. The proviso is there so that we can narrow the threat and focus on understanding the concept of multi level security. If we include the aspects of integrity and availability then things get much more compkicated.

4. The labels we are using reflect the sensitivity of the information contained in the folder. 

5. We are not concerned with how the labels got there because that is more of an integrity issue. 

6. The cafeteria is serving chopped beef on toast today.
The base softball team has a game tomorrow at 3pm.
Col. Jones just got a raise.
Col. Smith didn't get a raise.
The British have broken the German Enigma codes.
The Normandy invasion is scheduled for June 6.

7. Unclassified - The cafeteria is serving chopped beef on toast today.
		- The base softball team has a game tomorrow at 3pm.
   Confidential - Col. Jones just got a raise.
		- Col. Smith didn't get a raise.
   Secret	- The British have broken the German Enigma codes.
   Top Secret	- The Normandy invasion is scheduled for June 6.

8. The most important information needs to be protected at all costs so use the highest appropriate level. If the information is in more than one category than label it for both so that only those who need the information have access to it. 


Lecture 7

1. The same labels used for the documents are given to humans which shows which level of security they are allowed.

2. The labels for documents show the sensitivity level of the information in the documents while the labels on humans indicates the classes of information that person is authorized to access.

3. For computers the documents could be certain webpages and the humans could be the internet users. 

4. The Principle of Least Privilege makes sense because if you do not want information leaks then you need to give people only the information that is absolutely needed to do their jobs.

5. The first one has secret access which is higher than confidential and the folder in question in crypto which is allowed. Secret does not have access to Top Secret for the second case. The third case secret has access to secret and below which includes unclassified.


Lecture 8

1. These terms were introduced to show that MLS can be used for more than just military security.

2. There are security labels A and B such that neither A dominates B nor B dominates A.

3. If you have security access Secret{A} but the document you are trying to access is Confidential{B} you still don't have access to the file because your domain is not B.

4. You may read from a document if your security access dominates the documents security level.

5. It is only if because there may be other security measures you must pass in order to gain access to the document.


Lecture 9

1. Simple Security is not enough to ensure confidentiality because simple security adds restrictions on read access but not write access.

2. There needs to be constraints on write access so that malicious programs do not "leak" information without your permission.

3. There are programs that run with the trust of the user and these programs can be of the malicious type that send information without your knowing.

4. The *-property states that only those who have lesser access can write to an object.

5. The subject must have the same access level and the same need-to-know category access. In other words (Ls, Cs) = (Lo, Co).

6. The General can go onto an unclassified account in order to send orders.

7. It is not a problem of confidentiality but we might deal with that by placing more rules in order to keep the integrity of the war plan.


Lecture 10

1. Weak Tranquility states that the security policy will not be violated despite label changes so it is not necessarily good or bad. However it could result in information leak so it must be done carefully.

2. There may be moments where you want to lower someones access or increase access.

3. Lowering the level of an object is dangerous because it is essentially writing down which you may not want. 

4. The lowering of the object must satisfy the *-property and Simple Security.


Lecture 11

1. You could give all the subjects high access levels like Top Secret and give the objects all low levels like unclassified which means that everyone can read it but no one can write on them.

2. The matrix would be incredibly big for most realistic systems.


Lecture 12

1. L{} -> L{A} -> H{A}
    |---> H{}-----^

2. Simple Security gives you the LUB and *-property gives you GLB.

3. Information may flow from L1 to L2 only if L2 >= L1.


Lecture 13

1. In this diagram, information is allowed to flow from L to H but not the other way aaround which is in essence the BLP model. You are allowed to write up using the *-property and no changes in labels should be made in compliance with the strong tranquility property.

2. The READ and WRITE operations are directly related to Simple Security and the *-property. You can read down and write up but not vice-versa.

3. There is nothing in the operations of CREATE and DESTROY that violate the BLP. There is no write down because you can only create at your level of access and destroying up does not cause information to be leaked. 

4. The low person must do the exact same process each time in order to get the 1 bit of information. 

5. The DESTROY statement is there to reset the object so that another bit of information can be sent.

6. In both paths the files will contain the same contents but the low level access subject will either have access to read or not have access.

7. SL must do the same thing in both cases because SH has no idea whether or not SL has received the information unless SL does the same thing everytime.

8. SH must do different things in order for the information to be sent. This covert channel relies on SH either creating the file or not.

9. While 1-bit of information does not seem to be a big deal, the fact that even that little amount could be sent from H to L is a violation of the metapolicy. Also given enough time that 1-bit could turn into a great number of bits of information.


Lecture 14

1. A covert channel by definition is a path for the illegal flow of information between subjects within a system. The system must be in play for covert channel to exist.

2. This is not a covert channel because if SH is allowed to write into F0 then it is a high level file and unable to be read by SL which would see 0 in both cases. If it is a low level file then SH will not be able to write in it which means SL will see the same result once again. No information can be passed this way.

3. The bit of information in Covert Channel 1 resides in the error messages: Resource not found or Access denied. SH can modulate the status of the resource which allows a bit of information to be sent on each access attempt by SL.

4. The bit of information resides in the amount of time spent by process p. By using either all of the allotted time or relinquishing the process immediately, p can send  information based on how much time has passed since it was last scheduled.

5. The bit of information resides on the disk drive cylinders. If process p accesses cylidners 140 or 160 then q can receive values from 139 or 161 depending on where p was most recently accessing.

6. The bit of information resides on the variable l which changes depending on what happens when the program is run.

7. You can only send one bit of information based on whether or not the computation terminated which is not much information thus low bandwidth.

8. To implement a power channel, previous work must be done in order to record the power usage. There might be a device that is required in order to get this information.

9. Power channels would be used mostly for things like smartphones where the power usage is kept on the smartcard.


Lecture 15

1. Covert channels on real processors operate at thousands of bits per second.

2. By attempting to eliminate all potential covert channels you run the risk of creating inefficiencies in your system.

3. You can eliminate it by modifying the system, reduce the bandwidth by introducing  noise into the channel, or monitor it for patterns of usage. 

4. A covert storage channel could exist in the example given where SH creates a file or does not create a file. 

5. SH creates a file and SL attempts to read from said file using the steps in Lecture 13 Slide 5. This can go on for many clock cycles which would allow much information to be passed 1 bit at a time.


Lecture 16

1. When you do CREATE you basically already know that the file exists because if there was no file then you just created it and if there was a file then your CREATE command does nothing.

2. If you can both provide information(R) and modify(M) the attribute then there is a way to send information from H to L.

3. If the S and M are in the same column but not the same attribute then it does not indicate a potential covert channgel. The sender and receiver must both have access to the attribute for a storage channel to exist. 

4. This is a preventative technique used to find potential channels so that you know where to look instead of blindly using your efforts in places where channels cannot exist.