Name: Jordan Graves
EID: jlg3585
CS Login: jgraves
Email: j.l.graves03@gmail.com

CS361 Questions: Week 2

Lecture 17

1. If a computer system complies with the BLP model, does it necessarily
comply with non-interference? Why or why not?

No. Subjects can interfere with one another via a covert channel.

2. What would the NI policy be for a BLP system with subjects: A at (Secret:
Crypto), B at (Secret: Nuclear)?

A nor B should be able to interfere, or communicate, with one another in any way.

3. Can covert channels exist in an NI policy? Why or why not?

No, the idea of a NI policy to to keep covert channels from existing by stating that some subject, A, cannot interfere with another subject, B. That is, A and B cannot communicate or interact with one another in any way. Since a covert channel is a way of two subjects.

4. If the NI policy is A− > B, in a BLP system what combinations of the
levels “high” and “low” could A and B have?

A can interfere with B. For a BLP system, A = low, B = high since A can do things (write) which affect B’s view.

Lecture 18

1. Why do NI policies better resemble metapolicies than policies?

NI policies are higher level policies which do not explain exact details on how they should be implemented.

2. What would be L’s view of the following actions: h1, l1, h2, h3, . . . , hj,l2, l3, . . . , lk

The same thing as the result of: l1, l2, l3, …, lk

3. What is difﬁcult about proving NI for realistic systems?

Interferences in real systems are very common.
Most of these interferences involve low-level components.
Many of these interferences are benign.


Lecture 19

1. Explain the importance of integrity in various contexts.

To ensure that data is correct. For example, a software company puts limitations on who can pull code into the production codebase. This helps ensure code correction for the final product.

An army officer gets an order to attack, but that order may have come from a corrupt source. In this case the attack order lacks integrity and if not treated as such, the result could be a loss of life.

2. Why would a company or individual opt to purchase commercial software
rather than download a similar, freely available version?

Commercial software is usually more rigorously tested before release and therefore more trustworthy in terms of integrity.

3. Explain the difference between separation of duty and separation of function.



4. What is the importance of auditing in integrity contexts?

Auditing is a way to verify a systems integrity through a structured process by analyzing the systems compliance with protocols and and overall effectiveness of it’s implementation.

5. What are the underlying ideas that raise the integrity concerns of Lipner?

That there is a large vast valley which separates users and programmers. Lipner was concerned with integrity in the commercial environment.


6. Name a common scenario where integrity would be more important than
conﬁdentiality.



Lecture 20

1. Give examples of information that is highly reliable with little sensitivity and information that is not so highly reliable but with greater sensitivity.



2. Explain the dominates relationships for each row in the table on slide 4.

Row one. The Expert level dominates the Student level and since they both concern the same subject, Physics, Label 1 dominates Label 2.

Row two. Expert >= Student but {Physics, Art} is not a superset of {Physics} so Label 1 does not dominate Label 2.

Row three. Student >= Novice an {} is a superset of {Art} so Label 1 dominates.

3. Construct the NI policy for the integrity metapolicy.

A subject should not be able to write up in integrity and a subject should not be able to read down in integrity. 

4. What does it mean that conﬁdentiality and integrity are “orthogonal issues?”

In a sense, they are unrelated issues. Both do concern security but they should not be treated as the same issues as they both have their own set of labels for subject and objects.

Lecture 21

1. Why is Biba Integrity called the “dual” of the BLP model?

Same rules in opposite order. An subject only being able to read object at it’s integrity level and higher is “dual” to a subject only being able to read objects of it’s confidentiality level and lower. And the Integrity *-Property, only being able to write down in integrity, is “dual” to the *-Property, only being able to write up in confidentiality.

2. Why in the ACM on slide 5 is the entry for Subj3 - Obj3 empty?

{B, C} is not a superset of {A, B} so Subj3 cannot read or write from or to Obj3.


3. If a subject satisﬁes conﬁdentiality requirements but fails integrity requirements of an object, can the subject access the object?

No. 

Lecture 22

1. What is the assumption about subjects in Biba’s low water mark policy?

That the subjects are not trustworthy enough to deal with being given the possibility to read low level integrity objects.

2. Are the subjects considered trustworthy?

Not in low water mark or strict integrity model.

3. Does the Ring policy make some assumption about the subject that the LWM policy does not?

Yes. That the subject is able to filter low integrity sources on their own.

4. Are the subjects considered trustworthy?

In the Ring policy, yes. Subject are assumed to be able to filter low integrity sources on their own.

Lecture 23

1. Are the SD and ID categories in Lipner’s model related to each other?



2. Why is it necessary for system controllers to have to ability to downgrade?

Because in order to move code from development to production, where it can be accessed by users, it’s label must be downgraded.

3. Can system controllers modify development code/test data?

Yes.

4. What form of tranquility underlies the downgrade ability?

Weak tranquility.

Lecture 24

1. What is the purpose of the four fundamental concerns of Clark and Wilson?

To specify what should be cared about in commercial software security.

2. What are some possible examples of CDIs in a commercial setting?

Bank balances, checks.

3. What are some possible examples of UDIs in a commercial setting?

Candy from the bowl in a bank. 

4. What is the difference between certiﬁcation and enforcement rules?



5. Give an example of a permission in a commercial setting.

A bank customer teller can withdraw money from that user’s account.

Lecture 25

1. Why would a consultant hired by American Airlines potentially have a breach of conﬁdentiality if also hired by United Airlines?

American Airlines and United Airlines are competing comanies.

2. In the example conﬂict classes, if you accessed a ﬁle from GM, then subsequently accessed a ﬁle from Microsoft, will you then be able to access another ﬁle from GM?

Yes, because GM and Microsoft are not competitors.

3. Following the previous question, what companies’ ﬁles are available for access according to the simple security rule?

Both GM and Microsoft and any other company not in the same conflict as GM or Microsoft.

4. What differences separate the Chinese Wall policy from the BLP model?

The chinese wall policy is designed to address very specific specific problems.
The Chinese wall *Property property adds an extra layer concerned with data being written to one companies files by one subjects then accessed later by another subject of a conflicting class.

Lecture 26

1. What beneﬁts are there in associating permissions with roles, rather than subjects?

It is much more applicable to commercial environments. 
It is easier to manage a roles access policies than it is to manage the thousands of subjects in that role individually.

2. What is the difference between authorized roles and active roles?

Authorized roles are roles which a person CAN fill in for or take while an active role is the role that a person holds.

3. What is the difference between role authorization and transaction authorization?

Role authorization concerns the roles an individual can take and transaction authorization concerns the actions that a subject can take based on their active roles.

4. What disadvantages do standard access control policies have when compared to RBAC?

Standard access control policies associates permissions with subjects.
Subjects are generally immutable in the sense that their identity much change in order to access different objects. This not the case in RBAC.

Lecture 27

1. Why would one not want to build an explicit ACM for an access control system?

You can always compute the ACM from the access control policy making them unnecessary. ACM’s in the real world are generally huge and sparse.

2. Name, in order, the ACM alternatives for storing permissions with objects, storing permissions with subjects and computing permissions on the ﬂy.

Maintain a set of rules to compute access permissions based on attributes of subjects and objects.
Associate the permissions with objects.
Associate the permissions with subjects.


Lecture 28

1. What must be true for the receiver to interpret the answer to a “yes” or “no” question?

The receiver must know how to interpret the answer to “yes” or “no”.

2. Why would one want to quantify the information content of a message?

To determine the efficiency of the message.

3. Why must the sender and receiver have some shared knowledge and an agreed encoding scheme?

No communication would occur because the two would not understand each other. They would be speaking different languages.

4. Why wouldn’t the sender want to transmit more data than the receiver needs to resolve uncertainty?

It is less efficient, usually requires more bandwidth or at least a longer lasting open connection between them. The idea is to have the information flow as efficiently as possible. Any extra information deteriorates the efficiency of communication. 

5. If the receiver knows the answer to a question will be “yes,” how many bits of data quantify the information content? Explain.

If the receiver knows the answer to a question then the receiver would have no need to ask it, therefore needed zero bits. I may not be understanding this question.

Lecture 29

1. How much information is contained in each of the ﬁrst three messages from slide 2?

n-bits.
4 bits.
7 bits.

2. Why does the amount of information contained in “The attack is at dawn” depend on the receiver’s level of uncertainty?

The receiver can resolve a one bit to read that the attack is at dawn or a zero to resolve that the attack is at dusk. The message content depends on the possibility that the reciver can resolve the information to.

3. How many bits of information must be transmitted for a sender to send one of exactly 16 messages? Why?

Four bits. Each of the 16 messages can be represented as a mapping from 4 bit sequences.

4. How much information content is contained in a message from a space of 256 messages?

Eight bits if the sender and receiver both agreed on the mapping.

5. Explain why very few circumstances are ideal, in terms of sending information content.

It is impossible or at least extremely difficult to determine the number of possible message that can be sent in realistic scenarios. 

Lecture 30

1. Explain the difference between the two connotations of the term “bit.”

One refers to a binary digit, the other is a measure of information content and is continuous.

2. Construct the naive encoding for 8 possible messages.

000
001
010
011
100
101
110
111

3. Explain why the encoding on slide 5 takes 995 + (5 * 5) bits.

995 messages will be message 10 using one bit, 5 will be error message using 5 bits.

4. How can knowing the prior probabilities of messages lead to a more efﬁcient encoding?
We can shrink the average number of bits per message.

5. Construct an encoding for 4 possible messages that is worse than the naive encoding.

Here we use 3 bits per message rather that 2.

001
010
100
101

6. What are some implications if it is possible to ﬁnd an optimal encoding?

The encoding is the best possible encoding and may therefore be singular.


Lecture 31

1. Name a string in the language consisting of positive, even numbers.

“42”

2. Construct a non-preﬁx-free encoding for the possible rolls of a 6-sided die.

01
10
111
1101
0010
0000

3. Why is it necessary for an encoding to be uniquely decodable?

To distinguish between symbols.

4. Why is a lossless encoding scheme desirable?

So that there is no lost or unnecessary information sent to the receiver.

5. Why doesn’t Morse code satisfy our criteria for encodings?

Morse code is not streaming. There are breaks between symbols.

Lecture 32

1. Calculate the entropy of an 8-sided, fair die (all outcomes are equally likely).

i = 8, pi = 8 for all i
so 

log(⅛) = -3
(.125 *-3) = -.375 * 8 = 3 * -1 = 3
h = -(𝞢 ⅛ * log(⅛)) = 3

2. If an unbalanced coin is 4 times more likely to yield a tail than a head, what is the entropy of the language?

T	⅘ 
H	⅕ 

log(⅘) = -0.321928 
log (⅕) = -2.321928 *

-(⅕ * log(⅕) + ⅘ * log(⅘)) =
-( -0.4643856 + -0.2575424) = 0.721928

3. Why is knowing the entropy of a language important?

It allows us to determine the number of bits used by the optimal encoding.

Lecture 33

1. Explain the reasoning behind the expectations presented in slide 3.

The probabilities are calculated by multiplying the probabilities of the individual events.

2. Explain why the total expected number of bits is 27 in the example presented in slide 4.

We expect to send 9 bits for HH, 6 bits for HT and TH, and 3 for TT using the probabilities of these events.

3. What is the naive encoding for the language in slide 5?

1 000
2 001
3 010
4 100
5 011
6 101

4. What is the entropy of this language?



5. Find an encoding more efﬁcient than the naive encoding for this language.



6. Why is your encoding more efﬁcient than the naive encoding?


