Name: Joel Henning
EID: jsh2689
UTCS ID: joelhenn
email: joel_henning@utexas.edu

Week 2 Questions

Lecture 17:

1. If a computer system complies with the BLP model, it does not necessarily comply with non-interference because in a BLP model, there can be covert channels, with certain subjects having visibility to the actions of higher level subjects.

2. The NI policy for subjects A and B would be that neither can interfere with the other as neither subject dominates the other.

3. No, because you would never have two different subjects that could interfere with each other in an NI policy. This would violate the policy if they had the ability to interfere with each other.

4. If the NI policy is such, then in a BLP system  


Lecture 18:

1.NI policies are abstract so therefore they more closely resemble metapolicies more so than other policies.

2. L's view would be just l2, l3, ....., lk

3. It is difficult to prove NI for realistic systems becuase interferences are very common in real systems, and that many of these interferences involve low-level system attributes.


Lecture 19:

1. 

2. A company of individual opt to purchase commercial software rather than download a similar, freely available version because the commercial software is usually created by a company that has a lot more credibility and integrity than software that is created for free by an individual.

3. Separation of duty is when you have several different subjects must be involved to complete a critical function, while sparation of function is when a single subject cannot complete comlementary roles in a process. This means that for separation of function, a subject can only have more than one role in a process if the roles aren't complementary. 

4. Auditing is important becuase it is keeping careful records, in case something bad happens so that you can assign responsibility and hopefully take care of the issue.

5. The underlying ideas that raise integrity concerns are that no one subject should ever really handle more than one role. Every process needs to be audited to make sure no breaches in security happen.

6. One common scenario where integrity is important would be banking, especially software for banks. Another scenario


Lecture 20:

1. Information that is highly reliable with little sensitivity is my class schedule. Plenty of people can see it, and it is very reliable, but not sensitive at all. Information that is not so reliable but highly sensitive is political rumors. They are not reliable but could be about information that is sensitive.

2. For the first row, the expert in physics has more reliable information about the topic and the student also knows less about the topic than the expert. The second row, label 1 does not dominate label 2 because the novice does not know as much about phsyics as an expert in physics would. For the last row, the student in art dominates the novice because the student knows more and has more integrity than the novice.

3. The NI policy for the integrity metapolicy is that information cannot flow up so the subjects cannot be connected.

4. It means that confidentiality, and integrity are opposing issues do not go together.


Lecture 21:

1. Its called the dual of the BLP model because all that the integrity rules do is switch the arrows for data flow. That is you apply the same rules as the BLP model, but you apply them in the opposite order.

2. The entry for Subj3 - Obj3 is empty because the subject gets neither read nor write access since the categories for Subj3 is not a superset of the categories of Obj3 and vice versa.

3. If a subject satisfies confidentiality requirements but fails integrity requirements of an object, the subject cannot access the object.


Lecture 22:

1. The assumption in Biba's policy is that the subject can be easily corrupted by bad information and will float down to that level.

2. The subjects are not given much credibility in this policy.

3. The Ring policy makes the assumption that the subject can recognize good, reliable information from bad information. It has the ability to separate good integrity information from low integrity information. This assumption is not made by the LWM policy.

4. In the Ring policy the subjects are considered trustworthy because they are required to separate the good information from the bad without any help.


Lecture 23:

1. The SD and ID categories in Lipner's model related to each other in the fact that those categories mean the same thing. That the subject is in development stages.

2. Its necessary for system controllers to have ability to downgrade to have the ability to more software (ie the objects) from development to production.

3. System controllers can modify development code/test data through the rules of Lipner's model.

4. The weak tranquility property underlies the downgrade ability.


Lecture 24:

1. The purpose of he four fundamental concerns of Clark and Wilson is to list out the major concerns that commercial security needs to focus on.

2. Some possible examples of CDIs in a commercial setting are intellectual properties that a company is trying to protect; software that a company is developing that it watnts to be protected.

3. Some possible examples of UDIs are public software that a company has developed and is releasing to the public; public knowledge of a company would also be a UDI.

4. The difference between certification and enforcement rules is that the enforcement rules need to be in place to have the policy go run, while the certifications are in place to make sure that the integrity of the policy stays intact.

5. When you download an app for your phone, you have to give the app permission to certain features of your phone to allwo the app to run properly.


Lecture 25:

1. The consultant could possibly pass off information about the competator to the other company either on purpose or by accident. This could cause all sorts of security breaches.

2. No you can not because you can only access files in different conflict classes once. So you cannot go from GM to Microsoft, then back to GM.

3. The files who are in the same company dataset, or in a entirely different conflict class are allowed to be accessed.

4. The differences that separate the Chinese Wall policy from the BLP model is that you are having to deal with multiple datasets, one for each company, that cannot be accessed in any order. Also subjects cannot have access to different datasets in one conflict class.

Lecture 26:

1. In associating permissions with roles, you don't have to worry about a subject changing, the permissions are connected to the roles so which ever subject has that role, then those are its permissions. If a subject changes roles, then the permissions will automatically change.

2. Authorized roles are roles that an individual is allowed to fll, but the active roles are the roles that the individual are currently occupying.

3. Role authorization is the need to make sure that the subject is authorized to be in that role, while transaction authorization is making sure that the transaction is part of one of the subject's active roles.

4. Standard access control policies are not as flexible as RBAC.


Lecture 27:

1. One would not want to build an explicit ACM for an access control system because real world systems could have thousands of subjects and objects. Also most subjects do not have any access to most of the objects in a real world system.

2. In order the alternatives are capability-control system, access control list, and maintaining a set of rules to computer the permissions on the fly.


Lecture 28:

1. The reciever and the sender must have an agreed upon answer, so that if it recieves a no it can interpret that correctly, and the same goes for the yes.

2. One would want to quantify the information content of a message because you need to know exactly what the receiver is getting in the message.

3. The sender and reciever must have some shared knowledge and an agreed encoding scheme because the reciever needs to know how to interpret any information that it receives from the sender. This is possible only if there is a common scheme.

4. The sender wouldn't want to transmit more data than the receiver needs because it would flood and confuse the receiver. Also it could possibly clog the network.


Lecture 29:

1. In the first message there is n bits of information, in the second message there is 4 bits of information, in the third message there is 7 bits.

2. The amount of information contained in "The attack is at dawn" depends on the receiver's level of uncertainty because the attack could come at dawn or dusk so thats one bit. But if the attack could come at any time of day that would need more bits to convey and if the day was uncertain there would be even more bits to be needed in the message.

3. 4 bits of information must be transmitted for a sender to send one of exactly 16 messages because 4 bits is the most you need to complete one of the messages. Each bit that is recieved splits the message in half until you have only one message left.

4. 9 bits of information.

5. Very few circumstances are ideal in the real world when sending information because you don't necessarily know all the possible messages or even the total number of possible messages so you need to have a more broad and less efficent encoding.


Lecture 30:

1. A bit could either be a quantity of information, or it could be a single binary digit depending on how the word "bit" is used.

2.  Messages:	Bits:
	0	000
	1	001
	2	010
	3	011
	4	100
	5	101
	6	110
	7	111

3. The encoding on slide 5 takes 995 + (5 * 5) bits because one of the messages shows up more than the others so that one mesage is encoded very efficiently and the other messages have a 1 added to the front. 

4. You can encode the most common messages much more efficiency so the encoding is better and requires less bits. This is why it helps to know the probabilities of messages beforehand.

5.  Messages:	Bits:
	0	100
	1	 0
	2	110
	3	111

6. The possible implications are that you get the right probabilities for the messages.


Lecture 31:

1. Even numbers between 0 and 10 would be a name of a string in the language consisting of positive, even numbers.

2.  Messages:	Code:
	1	0
	2	1
	3	01
	4	10
	5	11
	6	110

3. Its necessary for an encoding to be uniquely decodable that way there is not a mixup in receiving the message since no two messages have the same code.

4. The lossless encoding scheme is desirable because it represents data more conscisely without losing information, and that makes the process is reversible.

5. Morse code doesn't satisfy our criteria for encodings because its not string, since there are breaks in the  between te letters, ie its not streaming.


Lecture 32:

1. The entropy = -(1/8 * log(1/8)) * 8

2. The entropy = -(1/5 * log(1/5) + 4/5 * log(4/5)

3. Its important to know the entropy of a language because then you can create an encoding that is more efficient based off of what messages are most likely to be sent. It sets a lower limit of encoding efficiency.


Lecture 33:

1. If you wait until you flip the coin twice, then you only have to deal with the 4 symbols, and it allows for a more efficient encoding for the results. You can also get the probabilities for 2 flips from multiplying the single flip probabilities together.

2. The total expected number of bits is 27 because you have to multiply the count of the results, and the number of bits that the code is. Then add all of the answers up to get 27 total expected bits.

3.  Messages:	Code:
	1	000
	2	001
	3	010
	4	011
	5	100
	6	101

4. The entropy = -(1/20 * log(1/20) + 1/20 * log(1/20) + 3/20 * log(3/20) + 3/20 * log(3/20) + 6/20 * log(6/20) + 6/20 * log(6/20))

5.  Messages:	Code:
	1	00
	2	01
	3	10
	4	11
	5	010
	6	011

6. This encoding is more efficient because it accounts for the fact that messages 1-4 are more common than messages 5 and 6. Also it uses on average fewer than 3 bits per message. 
