Name: Juan Yu
EID: jay336
CS Login: jyu
Email: jeongwook.yu@gmail.com

CS 361 Questions: Week 1Lecture 11. Personal security, network security, computer security.2. "Protection of assets against threats".3. No. Most attacks have been well protected against.4. Most likely, my personal computer is infected due to the fact many websites are vulnerable.  While i do try and maintain my computer secure, there will always be new malicious content out there.5. I use both antivirus and malware security software.6. Yes because updates allow them to increase security to new risks but are still vulnerable to zero day attacks.7. With technology growing and many things becoming digitized and interconnected, the threat grows with it. Hackers will be able to find vulnerabilities in many critical areas that may pose a very serious threat.8. Enhance your own protection as well as your work environment. Being better informed can help keep your and the entire network safer.Lecture 21. New malware or threats are continuously being discovered as well as vulnerabilities and trying to manage each from day to day can be taxing.2. No because there are many possibilities and as it stated in the module, perfect security is probably impossible because attackers will find a vulnerability that you couldn't think of.3. The defender must find all possible attack scenarios while the attacker must only find one bad thing and expose it.4. I agree because no matter how much we have progressed from then till now, there will always be flaws to a system.5. In order to manage the risk, you must sacrifice one aspect or goal of your system in order to make it more secure.Lecture 31. Risk is the possibility that a particular threat will adversely impact an information system by exploiting a particular vulnerability.2. Since obtaining perfect security is unlikely, it is good to manage risk. By managing such risk, one will be able to cope with certain tradeoffs or decisions.3. I accept the risk of being connected to the network. This opens up possible threats but the cost of not having internet is not feasible. I avoid visiting any malicious sites or downloading any malicious content. I mitigate some risk by using free or provided anti-virus, firewalls and other scanners. One example of shifting risk would be using the UT Internet. All the risks and security measures are handled by IT and systems.4. The system is "naive" because different scenarios have different levels of risk.5. Technical, economic, psychological.Lecture 41. The terms on lists on slide 3 are the mechanisms used to protect or accomplish the goals of the aspects of computer security listed on slide 2.2. Confidentiality because there are many things I would like to keep private. Such as banks accounts, school information or access, emails, etc. If an attacker was able to get a hold of these, my losses could be significant.3. Not all data or content is equally sensitive or important. This way, security can be balanced out so that data that is more important received more attention that those that are not. By grouping them, you will also be able characterize who will be given authorization to which groups.4. As new people come in or as groups/categories change, different people need to be given authorization or others may need to have it taken away.5. For the information to available, you must ensure that the system is reliable.6. Both would be considered important when dealing with an online retailer. You want to make sure there are authentication processes to ensure that only you would be able to get on your account, as well as authenticating that you are dealing with the correct entity. Once the purchase is made, then non-repudiation comes into play.Lecture 51. A metapolicy for a cell network could be that the cell network itself is reliable and secure.2. A metapolicy is more abstract. A policy is more specific and it provides instructions or guidance to make sure security goals are being met.3. Only the student may access his academic records unless his parents are also verified and given access through the student. Student should be able to change their grades. A faculty member may change a student's grade only if he/she is in his/her class.4. A student may want his or her friend to be able to view their records.5. A student's social security number should protected from disclosure and should be confidential.6. Without understanding the metapolicy or the overall security goals of the system, then you won't be sure whether the policy set in place is appropriate or sufficient.Lecture 61. In the military setting, there is a lot of highly sensitive information that must be kept private. If that kind of information was leaked, there could be really dire consequences. Integrity also takes part in a sense that a military schedule or instructions should not be changed by outside sources. Military networks and communications must also be available in order for the military to function smoothly.2. The threat is giving access to sensitive information to the wrong or unauthorized people. 3. Because this will lead to some counterintuitive results. 4. The label will have 2 components. The first being a hierarchical component which is a token which is drawn from a linearly ordered set. This allows us to know the level of secrecy that we need to apply to that given information. The second part will be “need-to-know” categories from an unordered set. This will let us know which types of domains or groups of people the information pertains to. 5. The labels are outside the scope of our concern because someone else has already placed the label based on their opinion of how sensitive the information is. We only have to be concerned in making sure it is properly placed and secured.6. The British have broken the German Enigma codes, the Normandy invasion is scheduled for June 6, Col. Jones just got a raise, Col. Smith didn’t get a raise, the base softball team has a game tomorrow at 3 pm, the cafeteria is serving chopped beef on toast today. 7. (Top Secret: {German Enigma codes, War schedule}), (Confidential: {Staff}), (Unclassified: {Base, Cafeteria}).8. When it contains both sensitive and nonsensitive, it is clear that the document should be classified in the highest appropriate level. If not, then the more highly sensitive information on the document may be accessible to unauthorized users. If it pertains to multiple domains, then use each appropriate category to allow each to have access. Lecture 71.  Individuals are given authorization levels or clearances of the same form as document sensitivity levels. 2. Individuals are also give a hierarchical security level as well as a set of “need to know categories”, but whereas the labels for documents indicate the sensitivity of the information, the labels on individuals indicates the degree of trustworthiness and also indicate classes of information that the person is authorized to access. 3. Files and Users.4. Within a given security level, not everyone needs to know everything. The individual should be given access to only the minimum amount required for them to do their job in order to prevent an information leaks, security breaches, etc. 5. They all make sense. In the first row, the individual is given a clearance of secret and that is higher than the level of the document which is confidential and the need-to-know categories are the same. In the second row the individual has a clearance of secret while the document is top secret. Hence, the individual should not be given access. For the third row, the individual has a clearance of secret while the document is unclassified with no categories so he/she is given access.Lecture 81. These terms are the vocabulary words typically used in security models and policies?2. It is a partial order because there are some labels that neither dominates the other.3.  For example, given (Top Secret: {Crypto}) and (Top Secret: {Nuclear}), neither dominates the other. 4. In order to dominate each other, they must have the same exact levels and categories. 5. Subject S can have read access to object O only if S has a higher or equal security level and if the categories for S are a superset of O.6. It is “only if” because it is a necessary requirement but not sufficient. There may be other security constraints. Lecture 91. It is not enough because a subject may be given read access and then copies the information on the document onto another piece of paper and labels it as unclassified. This does not violate the Simple Security Rule but it does violate confidentiality.2. We need constraints in order to prevent information leaks. 3. Many programs may run on a computer and some may be malicious and leak information. The person using the computer may be trustworthy but the programs he/she runs may not be but they are executing with their privileges.4. A subject is granted write access to an object only if the level of the subject is dominated by the level of the object. Meaning that the subject can’t write information down (lower levels) but they can write up (higher levels). 5. In order for a subject to have read and write access to an object, the subject must dominate the object and the object must also be able to dominate the subject. This means that they are the same level of security and have the same categories. 6. The general can log out of his top-secret account and logs in on a unclassified account and sends the information. 7. Yes it is a problem. I would suggest that anything that gets written up be viewed and verified by someone that has read access to that information. That way any unwanted changes can be negated.Lecture 101. Raising the level of a subject may be bad because then a low level subject could view high-level information. Lowering the level of a subject is a bit tricky but depends on whether or not the subject has residual content from the higher level (write down) or not (stateless subject).2. Subjects or objects may need to operate at a different level,3. You should not be able to lower the level of an object but you are able to higher it (writing up). Lowering the level of an object will may make the classified information it contains open to unauthorized users. 4. Lowering the level is a bit tricky but depends on whether or not it has residual content from the higher level (write down) or not (stateless subject). You do not want any high security information being moved down for others to view. Lecture 111. You would give all subjects the highest level of security and give the objects any lower level of security. The subjects will be able to read all the way down to the lowest but only be able to write at their own level. 2. The matrices would be too big and most intersections may be empty because most subjects may not have access to the objects. There is also no need to construct such matrix because the computations could be done on the fly.Lecture 121. (H, {A})<—————————————(H, {})               	^	             ^        |                    |	|		     |	|		     |		|		     |	|		     |   (L, {A})<—————————————(L, {})              				2. Using the set of labels you form an algebraic structure called a lattice to identify them.3. The overall goal (meta policy) of BLP is to constrain the flow of information among the different security levels within the lattice. Within the lattice, this means the information should only flow upward or there is a violation to the security goals. Lecture 131. If there are only to hierarchical levels H and L with no need-to-know categories, then the Simple Security rule states the H can read from L but not vice versa. The *-Property states that L can write to H but not the other way around. This will make all information flow from L to H.  2. Read(S, O) states that if the level of the subject is higher than the level of the object, then it returns the value of the object (reads it) or returns zero. This satisfies the Simple Security Rule. For Write(S, O, V) states that if the subject is smaller than the object, then the subject can write its value V to the object which confirms the *-Property. 3. Both create and destroy do not violate any of the BLP rules. Create seems to be valid within the rules of BLP because it is not writing down but on its level. Destroy also is valid because it only destroy the object if it exists and if it has write access to it.4. SH has to vary its behavior to signal one bit of information to SL. 5. The DESTROY is there to show that the program could go back again and repeat the same steps using the same name in a loop and send arbitrary amounts of information over the channel.6. The contents are the same.7. SL on both sides attempts to read at its level but only succeeds on the right side. This varies the outcome, which allows for the signaling. 8. By varying what SH does on each side, it is possible to send a bit of information from SH to SL.9. Depending on whether SL sees or reads anything is an indication whether or not the object was created in its level or the higher level. As shown in the covert channel example, by being able to see or read the value, the object was never created in the higher level and thus a bit of information was sent to SL. Lecture 141. It is not a covert channel because it is not a flow within the system. The mechanisms within the system are not being used to manipulate the flow of information. 2. No it is not because the content itself is changing. It is not manipulating the system into signaling information that it shouldn’t be sending. 3. The information is kept within the system state. 4. It utilizes the system clock to determine the result. 5. It is using the disks read head to analyze the result by using the order of which cylinder is closest to it.6. The information is stored in the control flow of the program. By using h and making the result of l dependent on h, the program varies the results. 7. The computation may have a low bandwidth because process may be terminated early.8. There has to be a varying level of power consumed or power supplied.9. Smartcards. Lecture 151. In realistic scenarios, covert channels could operate or send thousands of bits per second, with no appreciable impact on system processing. 2. It may affect the system implementation too much. 3. It can be eliminated by modifying the system implementation, reduce the bandwidth by introducing noise, or monitor it. 4. Both a sender and a receiver must have access to some attribute of a shared object. The sender must be able to modify it and the receiver but me able to view any changes made. 5. By having some kind of coordination between the sender and receiver, the receiver is able to know when there is a change (access denied, or not available) and that allows for information to be received. Lecture 161. Although you know the file exists after you create it or fail to create it, it is not enough to know something about the attribute but it is more important that the operation tells you something about the attribute. 2. For that attribute (row), there is a mechanism by which someone can modify it and someone can reference it. This is what is needed for a covert channel to exist. 3. No because those are two different attributes. 4. By creating a SRMM you would be able to identify where potential covert channels are and deal with such channels. 