Name: Kevin ByersEID: kb25543CS Login: kevinbEmail: Kevin.byers.tennis@gmail.com
			CS361 Questions: Week 4
Lecture 53
1. Why is it important for a digital signature to be non-reusable?
If a digital signature was reusable, then people could impersonate others, by obtaining their digital signatures causing a problem with integrity.
2. Why is it the hash of the message typically signed, rather than the message itself?
The hash of the message is signed so that the receiver can tell if the message has been tampered with.
3. What assurance does R gain from the interchange on slide 4?
R knows that S sent the message and no one else could see the message. Also that it is tamperproof, not reusable and S cannot deny using the signature.

Lecture 54
1. What is the importance of certificate authorities?
Certificate authorities vouch for the accuracy of the binding of the public key with the user's identity.
2. In the example on slide 5, why does X sign the hash of the first message with its private key?
To bind the message with the private key, so that whoever uses X's public key knows X signed the certificate and whether or not the data has been manipulated.
3. Why is it necessary to have a hash of Y and Ky?
So when Y recreates the data from the hash, they can make sure it was not tampered with and send the signed data to Z.
4. What would happen if Z had a public key for X, but it was not trustworthy? Z would not be able to be 100% sure that X signed the data.

Lecture 55
1. What happens at the root of a chain of trust?
The chain is certified by a trusted authority.
2. Why does an X.509 certificate include a “validity interval”?
So that the members of the chain can be assured of a trustworthy connection for that amount of time.
3. What would it mean if the hash and the received value did not match?
It means the integrity of the message has been compromised.

Lecture 56
1. What are some protocols previously discussed?
Bell and LaPadula, Low-WaterMark, The Ring Policy, and Strict Integrity 
2. What may happen if one step of a protocol is ignored?
The protocol becomes invalid.
3. Why must the ciphers commute in order to accomplish the task in slide 4? 
To send content confidentially when two parties don't share a secret/key.
4. Describe how an attacker can extract M from the protocol in slide 6.
They can store the messages and XOR 1 with the result of 2 XOR 3.
5. Describe how an attacker can extract Ka from the protocol in slide 6. 
They can XOR 2 and 3.
6. Describe how an attacker can extract Kb from the protocol in slide 6.
They can XOR 1 with 2.
7. Why are cryptographic protocols difficult to design and easy to get wrong? There are a lot of subtle details that can cause the protocols to lose their purpose. 

Lecture 57
1. Explain the importance of protocols in the context of the Internet. It controls the syntax, semantics, and synchronization of communication, and is designed to accomplish a communication-related function
2. Explain the importance of cryptographic protocols in the context of the Internet.
Almost everything that occurs on the internet needs to be secured somehow using cryptography.
3. What are the assumptions of the protocol in slide 6?
A and B have a public and private key set up and are transmitting over a hostile network, but the messages get delivered.
4. What are the goals of the protocol in slide 6?
For A to share a secret key with B and each party is authenticated to the other.
5. Are the goals of the protocol in slide 6 satisfied? Explain.
No, the key is shared, but it has a fatal flaw.
6. How is the protocol in slide 6 flawed?
Someone can intercept the message or the message could not be delivered over the network.

Lecture 58
1. Why is it important to know if a protocol includes unnecessary steps or messages?
To make the protocol as efficient as possible
2. Why is it important to know if a protocol encrypts items that could be sent in the clear?
So you do not waste time encrypting data that does not need to be encrypted.

Lecture 59
1. Why might it be difficult to answer what constitutes an attack on a cryptographic protocol?
You need to know things like if both authentication and secrecy assured, if it is possible to impersonate one or more of the parties, and what tools can an attacker deploy.
2. Describe potential dangers of a replay attack.
Making more purchases in someone's name when they only intended to make one.
3. Are there attacks where an attacker gains no secret information? Explain.
Yes, sometimes they can impersonate others or replay attacks without decoding the secret message, but passing it along as if they were the person who sent it in the first place.
4. What restrictions are imposed on the attacker?
The designer of a protocol should assume that an attacker can access all of the traffic and interject his own messages into the flow.
5. Why is it important that protocols are asynchronous?
So that a party will not know anything about the current run of the protocol except the messages it has received and sent and each message is of a form that the recipient can identify and respond to.

Lecture 60
1. Would the Needham-Schroeder protocol work without nonces?
Not without lowering the integrity of the message.
2. For each step of the NS protocol, answer the two questions on slide 5.
1) A is trying to say “I’m A, I want to communicate with B, here is my nonce.” B doesn’t see anything yet.
2) Server sends A the encoded message, B still doesn't see anything.
3) A sends B the encrypted message.  B receives the message.
4) B generates a nonce, encrypts it and sends it to A. “Are we on the same page?”. Uncertainty on B’s side
5) A sends back a response to B saying “yes, we are.” Uncertainty resolved on both sides.

Lecture 61
1. As in slide 5, if A’s key were later changed, after having Kas compromised, how could A still be impersonated?
By using replay attacks, or compromising the new key.
2. Is it fair to ask the question of a key being broken?
Not if the cryptographic protocol is strong.
3. How might you address these flaws if you were the protocol designer?
I would either make sure the key is as strong as possible or look into a way to immediately detect a broken key and replace it.

Lecture 62
1. What guarantees does Otway-Rees seem to provide to A and B?
It seems to provide authentication for both parties.
2. Are there guarantees that Needham-Schroeder provides that Otway-Rees does not or vice versa?
They both "guarantee" a protocol for verifying identities.
3. How could you fix the flawed protocol from slide 4?
B should not send the message if it involves that many encryptions.

Lecture 63
1. Why is the verification of protocols important?
To make sure that a protocol can be trusted.
2. What is a belief logic?
 A type of verification that allows you to reason about what principals within the protocol should be able to infer from the messages they see.
3. A protocol is a program; where do you think beliefs come in?
In understanding the logic and necessity behind the program itself.

Lecture 64
1. What is a modal logic?
It’s a type of formal logic that extends classical, propositional and predicate logic to include operators expressing modality.
2. Explain the intuition behind the message meaning inference rule.
If A believes that A and B share K, and A receives a message which is encrypted with K, then A is entitled to believe that the message must have come from B.
3. Explain the intuition behind the nonce verification inference rule.
If A believes X is fresh and A believes B once said X, then A believes B believes X.
4. Explain the intuition behind the jurisdiction inference rule.
If A believes B has jurisdiction over X and A believes B believes X, then A believes X.
5. What is idealization and why is it needed?
It is the process to get protocol steps to logical inferences in order to turn the message sent into its intended semantics.

Lecture 65
1. Why do you think plaintext is omitted in a BAN idealization?
So that the plaintext can not be read directly.
2. Some idealized steps seem to refer to beliefs that will happen later in the protocol. Why would that be?
Without the plaintext, the message cannot be encrypted by S yet.
3. One benefit of a BAN proof is that it exposes assumptions. Explain that.
It shows what is provable and what must be assumed, requiring a lot of practice and insight into the protocol in order to make proofs.

