Questions Week 5

Even Hvatum
UT EID: eah2322
CS Login: ehvatum
Email: ehvatum@utexas.edu

Lecture 66

1. PGP stands for Pretty Good Privacy and is a publcly accessible encryption method that can be used for email privacy. It uses trusted and well reviewed public algorithms and is not controlled by any government.

2. Zimmerman distrusted the government and believed that people had a right to privacy that superseded a government's need-to-know.

3. Yes, since the FBI and various other government agencies find it next to impossible to break this encryption, it is safe to say it provides extremely effective security.

4. Purchasing support may give you more peace of mind that you are receiving a valid version of the algorithm and not something with a back door built in.

Lecture 67

1. PGP authentication is done by the sender hashing his message and signing it with his private key which only he has and then prepending this to the message. The receiver can then decrypt the hash with the sender's public key and compare this hash with his own hash of the message to guarantee that the message did originate with the sender and that it has not been modified.

2. PGP confidentiality is achieved by generating a random session key which is used to encrypt the message itself and then encrypting the session key with the receiver's public key. When the receiver get the message with the key prepended, all he has to do is use his private key to decrypt the session key and the session key to decrypt the message.

3. PGP authentication and confidentiality is done by applying the authentication steps first and then applying the confidentiality steps to the resulting message.

Lecture 68

1. PGP also provides compression, email compatibility, and segmentation.

2. Apart from just reducing the message size, compression strengthens the encryption since it reduces redundancy in the message.

3. Different versions of the compression algorithm may behave differently so it is preferable to sign the message first so the signature does not depend on the compression algorithm used.

4. Radix-64 conversion prevents email systems from interpreting certain bit strings post-encryption as control commands by mapping them to ASCII characters. This provides email compatibility.

5. PGP segmentation prevents a message from being too large for some email systems by breaking it up into several segments and then reassembling them on the other end.

Lecture 69

1. PGP uses session keys, public keys, private keys, and passphrase-based keys.

2. Sessions keys must be associated with a single message and only used once.

3. A new session key is made by combining a previous session key and two smaller blocks of size n/2 generated based on user keystrokes and timing and then encrypting them.

4. RSA keys are generated by generating a random number of at least 200 bits in size and then testing it for primality. Once a prime number has been generated of this size, then it is used as the RSA key.

5. The private key is protected by a user selected passphrase. The passphrase is hashed and then deleted. The hash is then used to encrypt the key itself and then the key is deleted as well.

Lecture 70

1. The receiver has a key-ring of all key-pairs he knows about. When receiving a message he also receives a likely unique ID of the least significant 64 bits of the key used to encrypt it. The receiver then checks his key-ring for a match.

2. A private key-ring contains the timestamp for each key, the key ID, the public key part, the encrypted private key, and the user ID.

3. The public key-ring contains the timestamp for each key, the key ID, the associated public key, and the user ID for the owner of the key.

4. To retrieve a private key, PGP looks it up on the key ring using the key ID in the message. PGP then prompts the user for the passphrase for the key and then recovers the key and decrypts the message.

5. The key legitimacy field indicated the extent to which PGP trusts that it is a valid key for the believed owner. It is based on certificates and the user's assessment.

6. To revoke a key, the owner issues a signer key revocation certificate. The recipients are expected to remove that key from their key rings.

Lecture 71

1. The consumer problem is when an attacker gets between the client and the service and disrupts communication. The producer problem is when an attacker requests so many services from the server that it is overloaded. Flooding the server is the more common attack.

2. Syn-flooding is when a transaction involved some handshake protocol that the attacker does not respond to and the server ties up resources waiting for a response.

3. Increasing the server's queue size could consume considerable system resources. Shortening time-out periods could close legitimate connections with slower clients. Filtering suspicious packets may be very difficult to determine which are suspicious.

Lecture 72

1. DDoS attacks rely on massing multiple requests of the server at the same time, so a filter that recognizes these patterns of identifiers and discards the requests will make it much harder to carry out this type of flooding attack.

2. An intrusion detection system analyzes patterns and reacts to an unexpected volume of requests after the attack has already begun. Intrusion prevention systems seek to prevent the attack by aggressively blocking any identified attempts.

3. Potential solutions are over-provisioning the network which means that you have so many servers that they cannot be overwhelmed which is an expensive and unrealistic solution. Another solution is to aggressively filter the attack packets which may not be possible to identify. The third option is to slow down processing which may disproportionally disadvantage attackers but will also affect legitimate clients. The last option is to speak up by requesting additional traffic from all requestors which will identify the attackers since they will already be maxed out.

Lecture 73

1. False negatives are attacks that are not detected while false positives are legitimate requests mis-identified as attacks. False positives are worse since they may discard important and legitimate requests.

2. In IDS, a system is accurate if it has no false negatives and precise if it has no false positives.

3. It is easy to make an IDS system that is either accurate or precise since taking a very aggressive approach leads to accuracy as you will catch all of the attacks or a system that is very lax and gives good precision as it lets even questionable requests through.

4. The base-rate fallacy is the probability that a request flagged as an attack is actually a false positive. A high base-rate fallacy means that the system must be designed to tread carefully when dealing with these positives to avoid damaging legitimate transactions and becoming a burden.

Lecture 74

1. CodeRed version 1 tried to infect randomly generated IP addresses based on a static seed and then once a good number of machines were infected, launch a DoS attack on whitehouse.gov.

2. CodeRed version 1 failed because it used a static seed for its IP addresses so the infection spread slowly, the machines could be disinfected by rebooting them, and once the IP address of whitehouse.gov was changed it could not carry out its DoS attempt.

3. A worm that is memory-resident exists only in memory. It has not infected any other part of the machine and will seize to exist once the machine is rebooted.

4. CodeRed version 2 was much more effective because it used a random seed so each machine that was infected went on to infect a much greater spread of other machines. This gave them much more leverage for DoS attacks and made the worm spread much faster and unpredictably.

Lecture 75

1. CodeRed II takes advantage of the same vulnerabilities as CodeRed versions 1 and 2. That is, the lack of patching machines to prevent the vulnerability.

2. The propogation scheme was designed to allow the worm to spread randomly but provide some focus on machines on the same network as they were likely to run the same software and be equally vulnerable to the attack.

3. CodeRed II attempted to set itself up permanently on the infected machines but do nothing else than spread further so that all the infected machines may one day be used to launch a DoS attack.

4. A large population of unpatched machines mean that there is a large pool from which the worm may infect all the unpatched machines and spread quicker for each new machine infected so that it has a huge amount of leverage for a DoS attack in the future.

5. The Verizon report found that most vulnerabilities already had available patches to fix the security risk more than six months before the attack started. The implication is that people put themselves at risk by not patching their machines to prevent security vulnerabilities.

Lecture 76

1. Most consumers are unfamiliar with exactly what their requirements should be from a security product and how to pick the right one for their needs.

2. An evaluation standard has a set of requirements defining security functionality, a set of assurance requirements needed for establishing the functional requirements, a methodology for determining that the functional requirements are met, and a measure of the evaluation result indicating the trustworthiness of the evaluated system.

3. Since crypto devices are anticipated to protect even more confidential information, often on a government level, they require certain standards set by the government and approved by the NSA.

4. The four levels of certification for cryptographic devices are as follows: level 1, basic security with at least one algorithm or function. Level 2, improved physical security with temper evident packaging. Level 3, strong tamper resistance and countermeasures. And level 4, complete envelope of protection including immediate zeroing of keys upon tampering.

Lecture 77

1. The Common Criteria is a secure systems evaluation criteria that was adopted by 26 countries including the U.S. which comprises the CC documents, CC Evaluation Methodology, and country specific methodologies.

2. It is called common since it was adopted by multiple countries in an attempt to prevent them all from having to design their own criteria and set a certain standard across the board that everyone could agree with.

3. Some countries have specific needs or requirements for their security systems that they have to adhere to so the common criteria allows for these country-specific methodologies to prevent them from having to come up with their own evaluation criteria.

4. A Protection Profile is a formal description of security for a class of systems while a Security Target is a specific system or family of systems.

Lecture 78

1. The overall goal of the Protection Profile is to describe what security means for this class of systems. In other words, it is to set forth the requirements of the system and how security is to be realized.

2. The purpose of the various parts of the Protection Profile are to describe the security system response to each assumption made or expected threat.

3. The matrix provides a systematic way of deciding whether threats and assumptions are being addressed by mechanisms and requirements.

Lecture 79

1. The overall goal of the Sun Identity Manager is to prevent unauthorized access to the system by hacking or physical attacks.

2. A Security Target is a specific system or class or systems with specific notions of what security means for that class or how the class enforces the notion of security.

Lecture 80

1. EALs are Evaluation Assurance Levels and provides assurance that the corresponding rigor was applied during development and testing.

2. Independent testing labs perform the evaluations of the Common Criteria.

3. Higher EALs require extensive documentation and are so sensitive that most countries do not trust each other to do that evaluation but would rather have their own most competent agency do the evaluation.

4. No, vendors can not certify their own products as they have a conflict of interest and are not accredited to perform the testing.

5. You can't reverse engineer the model from the code since the model must have been designed using formal mathematical methods and reverse engineering it is an imprecise science.