Enam AYIVI
UTEid: aea787 
CS ID: eayivi
CS361 Questions: Week 4




Lecture 53


Public key encryption ensures tthat the message is unforgeable, authentic, non-repudiable, tamperproof, and not reusable.

1. Why is it important for a digital signature to be non reusable? Because the signature should be bound to the document, otherwise a document that S did not intend to sign has their signature on it.

2. Why is it the hash of the message typically signed, rather than the message itself? Because applying public key to a document is an expensive operation, whereas the hash of that document is finite, so it's much more computationally effective to apply to the hash.

3. What assurance does R gain from the interchange on slide 4? That the message came from S, and that it was not tampered with.





Lecture 54

Certification: one party vouching for binding between identity and public key

1. What is the importance of certiﬁcate authorities? They vouch for the folks that you are interacting with.

2. In the example on slide 5, why does X sign the hash of the ﬁrst message with its private key? To vouch that X herself computed the hash of that message.

3. Why is it necessary to have a hash of Y and Ky? To bound Y and Ky in a computationally feasible way, while still preserving the uniqueness of the binding, compared to other bindings.

4. What would happen if Z had a public key for X, but it was not trustworthy? Defeats the entire process. Then Z could not trust that Ky belonged to Y. 







Lecture 55


1. What happens at the root of a chain of trust? There is an unimpeachable authority, which everyone trusts. 

2. Why does an X.509 certiﬁcate include a “validity interval”? Because this stipulates when a certificate expires, and ensure the different senders/receivers that routine updates have been made. 

3. What would it mean if the hash and the received value did not match? Then someone tampered with a field in the certificate and it is not valid.





Lecture 56

Protocol is a structured dialog. 

1. What are some protocols previously discussed?  Communication dialogs for exchange of information, e.g. Diffie-Hellman

2. What may happen if one step of a protocol is ignored? The entire protocol breaks down.

3. Why must the ciphers commute in order to accomplish the task in slide 4? So one of the party does not get his own key locked inside the box with another key he can't take of.

4. Describe how an attacker can extract M from the protocol in slide 6. XOR it twice with a known value (Ka or Kb), after eavesdropping the entire exchange.

5. Describle how an attacker can extract Ka from the protocol in slide 6. XOr the message with itself, and with Kb if applicable

6. Describle how an attacker can extract Kb from the protocol in slide 6. Similar to abobe, but XORing with Ka

7. Why are cryptographic protocols difﬁcult to design and easy to get wrong? Because they appear to be strong even if they are not.




Lecture 57


1. Explain the importance of protocols in the context of the internet. We want to ensure that information is not lost or corrupted, so we use standards of dialogs to do so.

2. Explain the importance of cryptographic protocols in the context of the internet. We want to ensure that information is not tampered with, and only viewable by the intended party, so we use cryptography, along with our protocols to ensure that.

3. What are the assumptions of the protocol in slide 6? There is a private/public key in place, an each party has those keys. 

4. What are the goals of the protocol in slide 6? Sharing a key and communication between A and B.

5. Are the goals of the protocol in slide 6 satisﬁed? Explain. No they are not, we are assuming that the other party is receiving the message while they just might not be.

6. How is the protocol in slide 6 ﬂawed? B never knew that A was going to be sending a message, let alone that it should encrypt it up, send it back etc. 




Lecture 58

1. Why is it important to know if a protocol includes unnecessary steps or messages? Saving computational power, bandwidth etc.

2. Why is it important to know if a protocol encrypts items that could be sent in the clear? We want to know whether resources are being wasted.




Lecture 59



1. Why might it be difﬁcult to answer what constitutes an attack on a cryptographic protocol? Because knowing that requires a strong and exhaustive knowledge of what is ever possible or not.

2. Describe potential dangers of a replay attack. The parties could get confused about what they are saying to each other and the meaning of their conversation will be completely lost.

3. Are there attacks where an attacker gains no secret information? Explain. Yes for instance the replay attack mentioned above. 

4. What restrictions are imposed on the attacker? The attacker can't generate message with a key he doesn't have.

5. Why is it important that protocols are asynchronous? The system is distributed in nature. A party won't know anything about a current run.



Lecture 60

Not a public-private key. Nonces show freshness of a message.

1. Would the Needham-Schroeder protocol work without nonces? No, we wouldn't know that two messages are related to one another.

2. For each step of the NS protocol, answer the two questions on slide 5.

    What is the sender trying to say with this message? 1. Wake up Server, I would like to communicate to B, here is the nonce. 2. S generates an encrypted messages includes the nonce, B's ID etc. 3. A sends the key and A's ID to B. 4. A knows that B has the key and can use it. 5. A sends an message with enough to show that A can decrypt the message, applies some function and re-encrypt it.

    What is the receiver entitled to believe after receiving the message? 1. S believes that A is trying to send a message 2. A now has the key 3. B says: "hey we are on step 3 and here is the key to our communication" 4. B generates a new nonce, sends the encrypted message to A 5. B knows that 



Lecture 61


1. As in slide 5, if A’s key were later changed, after having Kas compromised, how could A still be impersonated.

2. Is it fair to ask the question of a key being broken? Depending on the strength of the encryption, it may be fair to do so

3. How might you address these ﬂaws if you were the protocol designer?



Lecture 62


1. What guarantees does Otway-Rees seem to provide to A and B? That both parties are authenticated through S.

2. Are there guarantees that Needham-Schroeder provides that Otway-Rees does not or vice versa? 
.
3. How could you ﬁx the ﬂawed protocol from slide 4? 



Lecture 63


1. Why is the veriﬁcation of protocols important? Because they are crucial to the functioning of the internet, and we have to know that years later someone will not expose a flaw in that protocol (or that someone would take advantage of it beforehand).

2. What is a belief logic? We reason on the basis of what the participants are entitled to believe after receiving a message. Specify the background of running the program. 

3. A protocol is a program; where do you think beliefs come in? Come from assumptions that one reasonably makes based on the outcome.


Lecture 64


1. What is a modal logic? A standard proposiational and predicated logic with some additional priimitives and rules of inference built-in to reasonate able a particular domain.

2. Explain the intuition behind the message meaning inference rule. Since B is the other party that A shared the key with, then A can be sure that the message came from B.

3. Explain the intuition behind the nonce veriﬁcation inference rule. If it's a fresh message for A, then it must be for B as well. 

4. Explain the intuition behind the jurisdiction inference rule. If you hear something from an expert, you take her word for it.

5. What is idealization and why is it needed? this is a step where you stare at a statement, and wonder what it is it's trying to accomplish. It is designed to remove the extra content and focus on exactly what contributes to a belief.



Lecture 65


1. Why do you think plaintext is omitted in a BAN idealization? Because it can be viewed by unintended recipiets.

2. Some idealized steps seem to refer to beliefs that will happen later in the protocol. Why would that be? 

3. One beneﬁt of a BAN proof is that it exposes assumptions. Explain that. This shows how assumptions come to be used to carry out the proof, so people can see what surprising statements they come up with.