Name: Caitlin Billings
EID: cb27349
CS Login: caitlin
Email: cxbillings@gmail.com

Lecture 17
1. If a computer system complies with the BLP model, does it necessarily
comply with non-interference? Why or why not?
No, there could still be covert channels used to communicate between SH 
and SL.

2. What would the NI policy be for a BLP system with subjects: A at 
(Secret:
Crypto), B at (Secret: Nuclear)?
A and B would not be allowed to interfere with one another and could only 
interfere with themselves.

3. Can covert channels exist in an NI policy? Why or why not?
No - if a system complies with non-interference then there's nothing a 
high-level subject can do to communicate information to a low-level one

4. If the NI policy is A- > B, in a BLP system what combinations of the
levels .high. and .low. could A and B have?
A: low      high      low
B: low      high      high

Lecture 18
1. Why do NI policies better resemble metapolicies than policies?
There's no specific rules about subjects, objects, or actions between 
them.

2. What would be L.s view of the following actions: h1, l1, h2, h3, . . . 
, hj,
l2, l3, . . . , lk
Assuming the system complies with non-interference, L should see only l1, 
l2, l3, ... lk.

3. What is difficult about proving NI for realistic systems?
Interference is very common and often benign in real systems.

Lecture 19
1. Explain the importance of integrity in various contexts.
The integrity of a subject measures the subject's ability to provide or 
produce reliable data. The integrity of an object measures the reliability 
of the information that the object contains.

2. Why would a company or individual opt to purchase commercial software
rather than download a similar, freely available version?
Because the trustworthiness/integrity of the commercially available 
software might be higher.

3. Explain the difference between separation of duty and separation of 
function.
Separation of duty requires multiple subjects to complete a single 
critical function, while separation of function says the one subject can't 
complete multiple critical functions.

4. What is the importance of auditing in integrity contexts?
If integrity is compromised, good auditing increases the probability of 
assigning responsibility or recovering from the issue.

5. What are the underlying ideas that raise the integrity concerns of 
Lipner?
The separation of functions (teller and programmer, for example) 
complicates the ability to maintain integrity in a simple manner.

6. Name a common scenario where integrity would be more important than
confidentiality.
It's more important for a bank to keep their numbers 100% accurate than it 
is to keep their data confidential.

Lecture 20
1. Give examples of information that is highly reliable with little 
sensitivity
and information that is not so highly reliable but with greater 
sensitivity.
A softball schedule is probably very reliable but not at all sensitive. 
Information intercepted from an enemy nation may not be 100% reliable, but 
would require high levels of confidentiality.

2. Explain the dominates relationships for each row in the table on slide 
4.
(Expert: {Physics}) dominates (Student: {Physics}) because Expert > 
Student and {Physics} is a subset of {Physics}. (Novice: {Physics, Art}) 
does not dominate (Expert: {Physics}) because Novice < Expert. (Student: 
{Art}) dominates (Novice: {}) because Student > Novice and {} is a subset 
of {Art}.

3. Construct the NI policy for the integrity metapolicy.
The opposite of the NI policy for confidentiality - that is, low-integrity 
subjects cannot be allowed to interfere with high-integrity subjects.

4. What does it mean that confidentiality and integrity are .orthogonal 
issues?.
They must be dealt with separately by separate policies, and subject must 
have different labels for confidentiality and integrity.

Lecture 21
1. Why is Biba Integrity called the .dual. of the BLP model?
It works the exact opposite way - reads are allowed if the object 
dominates the subject, and writes are allowed if the subject dominates the 
object. All the Rs and Ws in the ACM are switched.

2. Why in the ACM on slide 5 is the entry for Subj3 - Obj3 empty?
Because neither {A,B} nor {B,C} is a subset of the other, so neither Obj3 
not Subj3 dominates the other.

3. If a subject satisfies confidentiality requirements but fails integrity 
requirements of an object, can the subject access the object?
no 

Lecture 22
1. What is the assumption about subjects in Biba's low water mark policy?
The subjects cannot be trusted to remain uncorrupted after reading 
low-integrity information.

2. Are the subjects considered trustworthy?
no

3. Does the Ring policy make some assumption about the subject that the
LWM policy does not?
The subject will not be corrupted by reading low-integrity information.

4. Are the subjects considered trustworthy?
yes
 
Lecture  23
1. Are the SD and ID categories in Lipner's model related to each other?
They both deal with development, but SD is related to confidentiality and ID is related to integrity.

2. Why is it necessary for system controllers to have to ability to downgrade?
Because they need to be able to move software objects from development to production.

3. Can system controllers modify development code/test data?
No, they cannot write to it because their confidentiality label dominated the confidentiality of the development code/test data.

4. What form of tranquility underlies the downgrade ability?
weak tranquility

Lecture 24
1. What is the purpose of the four fundamental concerns of Clark and Wilson?
They define the metapolicy for commercial integrity.

2. What are some possible examples of CDIs in a commercial setting?
bank balances, deposit box contents, etc.

3. What are some possible examples of UDIs in a commercial setting?
bank pens, bowl of candy on the bank desk

4. What is the difference between certification and enforcement rules?
The certification rules deal with ensuring the integrity of the objects in the system, while enforcement rules deal with the subjects.

5. Give an example of a permission in a commercial setting.
(Bank Patron, withdrawal, {patron's savings account, patron's checking account})

Lecture 25
1. Why would a consultant hired by American Airlines potentially have a
breach of confidentiality if also hired by United Airlines?
Because they would have confidential information from American Airlines that should not be available to their competitor, United Airlines.

2. In the example conflict classes, if you accessed a file from GM, then sub-
sequently accessed a file from Microsoft, will you then be able to access
another file from GM?
yes

3. Following the previous question, what companies' files are available for
access according to the simple security rule?
companies that are not in the same conflict class

4. What differences separate the Chinese Wall policy from the BLP model?
The objects are grouped into classes of objects that define the integrity rules.

Lecture 26
1. What benefits are there in associating permissions with roles, rather than
subjects?
everyone in the same role has the same permissions, permissions make sense based on the organization, subjects can have multiple roles

2. What is the difference between authorized roles and active roles?
Active roles are those the subject currently occupies, while authorized roles are the roles it may occupy at other times.

3. What is the difference between role authorization and transaction authorization?
A role must be authorized for a specific person, and a transaction must be authorized for a specific role.

4. What disadvantages do standard access control policies have when com-
pared to RBAC?
They're less flexible, a change in permissions has to happen on a person-by-person basis rather than across an entire role.

Lecture 27
1. Why would one not want to build an explicit ACM for an access control
system?
The size of the ACM may be unreasonably large depending on the number of subjects and objects in the system.

2. Name, in order, the ACM alternatives for storing permissions with objects,
storing permissions with subjects and computing permissions on the fly.
1. maintain a set of rules to compute access permissions
2. store the permissions with objects (access control list)
3. store the permissions with subjects (capability-based system)

Lecture 28
1. What must be true for the receiver to interpret the answer to a “yes” or “no”
question?
The receiver and the sender must have an agreed-upon encoding for transmitting either a yes or no between them.

2. Why would one want to quantify the information content of a message?
Because it can be a lot more bandwith-efficient to send shorter bitstrings than to encode and send, say, a full ASCII string.

3. Why must the sender and receiver have some shared knowledge and an
agreed encoding scheme?
Because otherwise the receiver won't know how to decode the information being sent.

4. Why wouldn’t the sender want to transmit more data than the receiver needs
to resolve uncertainty?
Because it would be a waste of resources.

5. If the receiver knows the answer to a question will be “yes,” how many bits
of data quantify the information content? Explain.
Zero, if the receiver already knows the answer then it requires no message to clear up the receiver's uncertainty.

Lecture 29
1. How much information is contained in each of the first three messages from
slide 2?
n bits, 4 bits, 7 bits

2. Why does the amound of information contained in “The attack is at dawn”
depend on the receiver’s level of uncertainty?
Because the more information that the receiver is lacking, the more information the sender has to transmit.

3. How many bits of information must be transmitted for a sender to send one
of exactly 16 messages? Why?
4 bits, because 4 bits can encode 16 different numbers (0-15)

4. How much information content is contained in a message from a space of
256 messages?
8 bits

5. Explain why very few circumstances are ideal, in terms of sending informa-
tion content.
Because it is rare for a message to exist in a space where all possibilities have exactly the same probability.

Lecture 30
1. Explain the difference between the two connotations of the term “bit.”
The first refers to a bit as a discrete binary digit, while the second understands a bit as a continuous amount of information, like in entropy calculations.

2. Construct the naive encoding for 8 possible messages.
M0 000
M1 001
M2 010
M3 011
M4 100
M5 101
M6 110
M7 111

3. Explain why the encoding on slide 5 takes 995 + (5 * 5) bits.
Because on average there will be 995 of message 10, which is one bit, plus five other messages, which are all five bits.

4. How can knowing the prior probabilities of messages lead to a more efficient
encoding?
You can encode higher-probability messages with a smaller number of bits to decrease the average message size.

5. Construct an encoding for 4 possible messages that is worse than the naive
encoding.
M1 000
M2 001
M3 010
M4 100

6. What are some implications if it is possible to find an optimal encoding?
That there is a minimum average encoding size for any set of messages.

Lecture 31
1. Name a string in the language consisting of positive, even numbers.
2468

2. Construct a non-prefix-free encoding for the possible rolls of a 6-sided die.
1 1
2 10
3 100
4 1000
5 10000
6 100000

3. Why is it necessary for an encoding to be uniquely decodable?
Because otherwise you won't know for sure how to parse the decoded message from the string of bits.

4. Why is a lossless encoding scheme desirable?
Because the loss of part of a message could corrupt its meaning entirely.

5. Why doesn’t Morse code satisfy our criteria for encodings?
Because it isn't uniquely decodable.

Lecture 32
1. Calculate the entropy of an 8-sided, fair die (all outcomes are equally likely).
log(8) = 3

2. If an unbalanced coin is 4 times more likely to yield a tail than a head, what
is the entropy of the language?
-((1/5)log(1/5)+(4/5)log(4/5))

3. Why is knowing the entropy of a language important?
It sets a lower limit on the possible encoding efficiency.

Lecture 33
1. Explain the reasoning behind the expectations presentedin slide 3.
HH - (3/4)*(3/4) = (9/16)
HT - (1/4)*(3/4) = (3/16)
TH - (1/4)*(3/4) = (3/16)
TT - (1/4)*(1/4) = (1/16)

2. Explain why the total expected number of bits is 27 in the example presented
in slide 4.
HH - 9*1 = 9
HT - 3*2 = 6
TH - 3*3 = 9
TT - 1*3 = 3
Sum      = 27

3. What is the naive encoding for the language in slide 5?
1 000
2 001
3 010
4 011
5 100
6 101

4. What is the entropy of this language?
-((6/22)log(6/22)+(6/22)log(6/22)+(3/22)log(3/22)+(3/22)log(3/22)+(2/22)log(2/22))

5. Find an encoding more efficient than the naive encoding for this language.
1 0
2 10
3 110
4 1110
5 11110
6 11111

6. Why is your encoding more efficient than the naive encoding?
Because the rolls with a higher probability use a smaller number of encoding bits.
