Name: Maximilian Brown
EID: brownmt6
CS Login: brownmt6	
Email:	maximilian.brown@gmail.com

Questions: Week 4
Lecture 53
1.	You wouldn't want someone to be able to reuse the digital signature on another document. It should be bound to the document it was intended for.

2.	Public key encryption in expensive to apply and the message could be arbitrarily long. Signing the hash is more practical.

3.	R knows that the message is unforgeable, authentic, no repudiation, tamperproof, and not reusable.

Lecture 54
1.	Certificate authorities vouch for the authenticity of a public key. Certificates are the equivalent of a letter of introduction.

2.	X is acting as the certificate authority. By signing it with private key, it has to be accessed with X's public key. If the person opening it trusts X they can trust the information within. They would know that the hash was created by X and they could verify that the key had not been tampered with.

3.	Having the the hash of Y and Ky makes it possible to check that the values of Y and Ky were not tampered with.

4.	Anything transmitted from X would not be trustworthy as well. The certification only works if Z already trusts X. 

Lecture 55
1.	The root of a chain of trust is idealy rooted at an unimpeachable authority or it could be a company specializing in certifications

2.	The validity interval is in place because certificates do not last for ever. The validity interval shows if a certificate is still valid and can be trusted.

3.	If the hash and recieved value did not match it would mean that the recieved value had been tampered with and could not be trusted.

Lecture 56
1.	The covert channel discussed previously could be considered a protocol. It was a series of steps used to communicate information accross a channel. Internet was discussed earlier and uses protocols very heavily.

2.	If one step of a protocol is ignored, it could make the protocol useless. Protocols have to be followed exactly. They were designed to be executed in their entirety.

3.	The ciphers have to commute because you need to be able to access what is "inside the box" to undo your original encryption.

4.	In order to extract M, an attacker would just need to keep all of the messages and putting them all together would yeild M. As long as it were an even number of each key. 

5.	You could XOR the second and third transmission which would leave Ka

6.	Kb could be extracted by XOR'ing the first two transmissions together. The Ka's would cancel out and you would be left with Kb.

7.	Cryptographic protocols are difficult for the same reason that security is difficult. Protocols have to be strong enough to withstand every type of attack. An attacker only needs to find one weakness.

Lecture 57
1.	Everything that occurs on the internet is done via a protocol, sending emails, moving files, ect. Protocols are a structured dialogue among two or more parties in a distributed context designed to accomplish a communication related funcition.

2.	Cryptographic protocols are important to the internet because the internet is used for many sensitive transactions which require some level of security.

3.	A public key infastructure is in place and each of the parties has a reliable version of eachothers public key.

4.	The goals are to transmit a key from A to B and for B to acknowledge receipt of the key with out anyone else gaining access to the key.

5.	B recieves the key from A and is able to see that it was signed by A. B sends a message to A to show that he recieved the key. Both ways the key is encrypted with either B or A's public key makeing it inaccessible without a private key.

6.	The flaw with the protocol is that an evesdropper could intercept and send {{k}k-1a}kb as message m encrypted as {{m}k-1e}kb, to B and B, following protocol would respond with {{m}k-1b}ke. This transmission expanded is. . . {{{{k}k-1a}kb}k-1b}ke. The kb and k-1b cancell eachother out and E is able to decrypt ke with E's own private key and k-1a with A's public key, gaining access to the key.

Lecture 58
1.	It's important to know the effectiveness of the protocol

2.	If a protocol encrypts items that could be sent in the clear, unnecessary efforts are being expended. This could also provide an unnecessary opoutunity for an eavesdropper to determine the encryption methods.

Lecture 59
1.	Attacks are hard to identify because attacks could arise at any momment. A protocol can be used for many years before a new vulnerability arises.

2.	An attacker can take recorded messages and interject them into the flow and disrupt the message traffic back and forth

3.	Yes there can be attacks where the attacker doesn't necessarily gain secret information, but is able to disrupt desired communication

4.	It is assumed the attacker can not make arbitrary messages. The attacker is only able to send messages or use keys that have been obtained by them.

5.	Any party to the protocol is not going to know whats going on in the protocol except for the messages that have been sent or recieved. The protocol has to be designed so that the parties know the purpose of a message and what is trying to be accomplished by the protocol. Messages mush be clear so appropriate response will be known.

Lecture 60
1.	The nonce is used to prevent the use of replay messages. The protocol wouldn't work as well because it would be susseptible to replay attacks

2.	A --> S: A, B, Na 							Sender A is trying to tell S that A want to communicate with B and needs a key
												Reciever believes the message is recent due to the fresh nonce
	S --> A: {Na, B, Kab, {Kab, A}kbs}kas 		Sender S sends A the key requested and sends a message for A to send to B which 												contains the key as well
												A believes the key recieved is valid since the message was encrypted using Kas
	A --> B: {Kab, A}kbs 						Sender A is letting B know he wants to communicate and that A has already obtained a 											 key
												Reciever B can trust the message becasue he sees that it originated from S who he trusts
	B --> A: {Nb}Kab							B wants A to know that he recieved the key recently. Nonce is used to show its not 												replay
												A can trust that the message is from B and that B got it recently
	A --> B: {Nb -1}Kab							A shows B that he got his message and changes the nonce val to show that it was 
												actually recieved
												B can believe that A actually got the message since the nonce was modified and knows that A has the key and can use it

Lecture 61
1.	An eavesdropper could send its old step three message to B impersonating A using an old key and be able to establish communication using the old key

2.	It isn't really fair to ask the question of a key being broken becasue a protocol assumes that there are strong secure keys. Any protocol could be compromised with broken keys.

3.	I would require the use of nonces for all of the steps to ensure that the messages were always "fresh"		

Lecture 62
1.	Otway-Rees seems to provide A and B the guarantee that they key generated by S for them to communicate is fresh and only known by A, B and S.

2.	Needham-Schroeder provides the guarantee that the key was recived by each other party. In the case of Otway-Rees, B never knows for sure that A recieved the key.

3.	I would change the first step to include a nonce and have the reply send the modified nonce back and not encrypt the message with B's private key. So instead of signing the response, you would be modifying the nonce to show you got the original message.

Lecture 63
1.	Protocols can go years before flaws are discoverd. Verification is important to ensure that as many flaws can be prevented as possible to make a strong protocol that is not susceptible to attacks.

2.	Belief logic is a formal system for reasoning about beleifs, using a set of logical operators and rules of inference.

3.	Beliefs come in between each step. It can be analyzed at each change in state what each party can possilby beleive based on what they know about the protocol so far and the actions that have occured.

Lecture 64
1.	Modal logic includes operators which express modality. 

2.	The message meaning inference rule - if A beleives it shares a key with B and recieves X encyrpted with that key, A also believes that B said X

3.	The Nonce verification inference rule - if A beleives that X is recent and that B once said X, Then A can infer that B beleives X

4.	The jurisdiction inference rule - If a beleives B has jurisdiction over X and A beleives that B beleives X then A also beleives X

5.	Idealization turns protocol steps into logical inferences. It turns the message sent into its intended semantics.

Lecture 65
1.	Plain text is omitted from BAN logic because it can be forged.

2.	Idealizing steps requires knowledge of the intent of a protocol. It is analyzing what is provable. 

3.	The BAN logical formalization forces you to write down all assumptions and shows where those assumptions are used to carry out the proof.