Danny Banh
EID: dgb634
CS login: dgb634
email: dannybanh@utexas.edu

CS361 Questions: Week 5

Due 5 pm, Thurs. July 10

Lecture 66
1. PGP is "pretty good privacy" - a packaged, easy to use, free to use email encryption.
This would be to make it easy to use for the average person.

2. Zimmerman was motivated to make PGP because he had a strong distrust of the government.

3. PGP does provide strong protection, as the FBI and other security agencies had problems decrypting PGP-encrypted messages.

4. Commercial versions are preferred by companies for support that is easily available.
If there are any problems with the commercial version, the company has another company to take responsibility.

Lecture 67
1. PGP authentication protocol: 
Sender creates message M, 
generates hash of M, 
signs hash with private key and prepends that to the message, 
Receiver uses sender's public key to verify signature and recover hash code,
Receiver generates new hash code for M and compares it with decrypted hash code. 

S -> R: {h(M)}Ks^-1, M

Essentially, the sender authenticates himself with signing a hash with its private key. 
The receiver can decode this in a way to know that the sender was the only person who could send the message.

2. Confidentiality: Sender generates msg M and random session key K. 
M is encrypted using key K, 
K encrypted using recipient's public key and prepended to the message. 
Receiver uses private key to recover session key. 
Session key used to decrypt message. S -> R: {K}Kr,{M}K

Essentially, the sender creates a message that only the Receiver can read with its private key. Sender uses the Receiver's public key.
There is a session key K to make public key encryption easier, with a fixed sized key.

3. Both authentication and confidentiality can be combined by using both protocols. 
Sender uses its own private key to show the receiver it is authentic.
Sender uses Receiver's public key and a session key to make it confidential.

Lecture 68
1. Other PGP "services" are compression, email compatibility, and segmentation.

2. Compression is needed to save bandwidth while sending messages over the internet.

3. Signing then encrypting is important because the other order (encrypting then signing) makes the signature rely on the encryption.
That would make it less secure.

4. Radix-64 conversion is a conversion that expands 3 bytes (octets) into 4 bytes (ascii) which makes messages easier to read.
It is needed because some encrypted 8 bit octets would be interpreted as commands by emailing systems. ASCII avoids this.

5. PGP segmentation is needed because some messages are too long to send. 
Email systems will restrict message length, but segmentation will let email systems send long messages in segments and reassemble them on the receiving end.
Lecture 69
1.  The four kinds of keys used by PGP are session keys, public keys, private keys, and passphrase-based keys.

2. The special properties needed by session keys are that they should be random-appearing (high entropy) and hard to guess. 

3. Session keys are generated through an encryption algorithm using a previosu session key and two blocks generated by user keystrokes and timings, creating high entropy. 

4. Assuming RSA is used for PGP asymmetric encryption, the keys are generated by finding a large prime number as a key.

5. The private keys are stored in an encrypted form, protected by a passphrase and hash of that phrase. This is necessary because the entire system is protected via the private key. 

Lecture 70
1. If a user has multiple private/public key pairs, he can know which was used when he receives an encrypted message. The PGP way is to generate an ID likely to be unique for a given user of the last, least significant 64-bits of the key as the ID. There is a small probability of collision.

2. A user’s private key ring contains a table of rows with the user’s own private keys with ID information - Timestamp, key ID, public key, private key, and user ID.
3. A user’s public key ring contains a table of rows with information of public keys of other users: timestamp, key ID, public key, and user ID.
4. The steps in retrieving a private key from the key ring are:
-Receiver R receives message encrypted with Kr
-PGP retrieves receiver’s encrypted private key from private key ring, using Key ID field in session key component of message as an index
-PGP prompts user for passphrase for unencrypted private key
-PGP recovers session key, decrypts message

5. The key legitimacy field is used to indicate how much PGP trusts that a public key is valid.

6. A key is revoked by the owner issuing a signed key revocation certificate. 

Lecture 71
1. The consumer problem is that the consumer is attacked by disrupting communications between the consumer and some provider. 
The producer problem is that the attacker overwhelms the server through offers/requests of services. The producer problem is more prevalent.

2. Syn flooding relies on a particular protocol. One is the TCP three way handshake.
The attacker sends many messages with forged return addresses to the server (SYN message) and server sends back SYN/ACK back to the forged addresses. The connections remain half-open” until timeout, and nothing else can be done since the server is at its limit.

3. The first solution of increasing the server’s queue size is not ideal because the attacker could just send more SYN messages - also, it could consume a lot of resources.
The second solution of shortening the time-out period might disallow connections by slower clients.
The third solution of filtering out suspicious packets is hard to determine and implement.

Lecture 72
1. Packet filtering works very well to prevent attacks because it detects patterns of identifiers of request stream and block those specific patterns.

2. Intrusion detection systems (IDS) looks at the behavior of the system and tries to find anomalies. It detects if problems have occurred.
Intrusion prevention systems (IPS) attempts to prevent any intrusions by blocking attacks aggressively. Tries to identify attacking traffic, rather than behavior in the system.

3. Four different solutions to DDoS attacks:
-Over-provisioning the network - having a lot of servers so cannot be overwhelmed - expensive and not feasible or workable
-Filtering attack packets - distinguish attack packets from reular packets - may not be possible
-Slow down processing - disadvantage requestors, but might disadvantage attackers even more
-”Speak up” solution - request additional traffic from all requestors, to try to find attacker bots that cannot send more packets

Lecture 73
1. False positives are when bad things happen and go undetected. False negatives are when bad activity does not happen, and it is believed that bad activity did happen. 
Which one is worse depends on the context. A highly sensitive system may think false positives are worse because it wants protection from everything. A less sensitive system may have acceptable losses from false positives, and instead does not want to lose things from making mistakes from false negatives.

2. “Accurate” means the IDS detects attacks correctly.
“Precise” means the IDS correctly ignores things that are not attacks.

3. An IDS that is perfectly accurate can be easy to design: just flag every activity as an attack.
An IDS that is perfectly precise can be easy to design: never flag anything.
Obviously, each one completely disregards one important aspect of IDS design and is not useful.

4. The base rate fallacy says that even a high detection rate, with rare events, can lead to high percentage of false positives.
An IDS that suffers from this suffers from a lot of false positives. Real attacks may be ignored.

Lecture 74
1. The Code Red version 1 attempted to infect machines and spread from there via IP address, and attack www1.whitehouse.gov. Also it defaced some webpages.

2. The Code Red version 1 was ineffective because there was a static seed to generate the list of IP addresses to hack, which meant it spread very slowly. 

3. The worm being “memory resident” meant that it resided in volatile memory so a reboot would remove it.

4. Code Red version 2 much more effective than version 1 because of the random seed which let it spread very fast. It crashed many systems.

Lecture 75
1. Code Red II was related to Code Red (versions 1 and 2) in name only. It seems that the maker of Code Red II knew about the original Code Red.

2. Code Red II probably incorporated its elaborate propagation scheme to make it easier to spread.
The idea is that machines with similar first numbers of the IP address were likely to run the same software and be infected the same way.

3. Code Red II attempted to make computers as a back door for future possible attacks.

4. Implications of a large population of unpatched machines include that it seems that it is a low priority to protect from these attacks.
Worms continue to exist on these unpatched networks.

5. Lessons of Verizon's study are that a lot of compromised data could have been prevented.
A large portion of successful attacks are of relatively old and known issues, but they were not prevented in time.

Lecture 76
1. A certification regime is useful to give customers more information on security products for more informed purchases.

2. The components of an evaluation standard include the following:
 - a set of requirements defining security functionality, to explain what the security product does
 - a set of assurance requirements for functionality, to explain the policy
 - a methodology for determining the functionality works, to apply the evaluation
 - a measure of the evaluation result, to grade how well it works
 
3. Crypto devices have a separate evaluation mechanism because crypto has less experts and is more sensitive (national security level).

4. The four levels of certification for crypto devices include the following:
Level 1 - basic security, possibly for home usage, at least one approved algorithm
Level 2 - improved physical security, tamper evident packaging
Level 3 - strong tamper resistance and counter measures
Level 4 - a complete envelope of protection, very physically strong, physical break in might negate keys, government level

Lecture 77
1. The Common Criteria is a set of documents/methodology to evaluate security systems.

2. It is "common" because it is agreed upon to be the base criteria between a large amount of countries.

3. There is need for "National Schemes" because at some level, countries will refuse to accept the criteria of other countries.

4. A protection profile is a description of a class of products and security model/policy for those. It can be a series of documents explaining the product.
A security target is a document explaining the security requirements of the product to be evaluated, can be more detailed than a protection profile.
The first can be evaluated for a class of product, the second is evaluated for a product or family of products.

Lecture 78
1. The overall goal of the protection profile by the WBIS example is to identify assets, threats, and security objectives.
This particular PP tries to protect the information (weight of trash) from attackers.

2. The various parts of the protection profile in the WBIS example have the following purposes:
 - Assets - Waste bin being cleared at the right time, and recording the weight properly
 - Environmental assumptions - A lot of possibilities, need more information to fill out security possibilities
 - Threats - identify what can attack the data, corrupting, modifying or creating random data
 - Organizational security policies - backup plans
 - Security Objectives - to have a goal
 - Security Requirements - how to achieve the goal

3. The purpose of the matrix on slide 7 is to map threats/assumption to security objectives/requirements.

Lecture 79
1. The overall goal of the security target evaluation through the Sun Identity Manager example is to evaluate threats, objectives, and environmental assumptions for the product.
It also evaluates how the threats are countered.

2. A security target evaluation seems to differ from a protection profile evaluation by actually evaluating a specific system, maybe a potential product.
The profile can evaluate the policy used in the system.

Lecture 80
1. EALs are Evaluation Assurance Levels. They are used for measuring how successful and detailed the evaluation of the security product is.

2. Independent organizations (not the producer of the security product) perform the Common Criteria evaluations. In the USA, we have NIST.

3. Higher level EALs may not be recognized between countries because there are different situations in different countries.
So there might be different security requirements and environments in different countries that make EALs not apply.

4. Vendors should not be able to certify their own products. 
This is because a different organization certifying that product will provide more trust in the product than the producers whose priority is sales rather than protection.

5. It is probably bad to reverse engineer the model from the code because the model should be mathematically and formally created.
There may be discrepancies with the planned model and the actual code.