Name: Eric Lane
EID: el9297
CS Login: elane
Email: e.lane@utexas.edu

Questions-Week2

Lecture 17:
    1)  Any MLS policy can be converted to a NI policy, but not the other way around.
        An MLS policy must be transitive.
    2)  I don't think there would be any communication because the labels don't match.
    3)  No. The idea is to make it impossible for low to see anything high is doing. 
    4)  B has to be high and A has to be low.
Lecture 18:
    1)  They are more all-encompassing.
    2)  L would only be able to see what it has done itself.
    3)  You have to include all potential channels of information.
Lecture 19:
    1)  Separation of duty, separation of function and auditing.
    2)  The commercial software is more trustworthy.
    3)  In order to complete 1 task, several people must be involved. And a single 
        person cannot hold more than one role in completing that task.
    4)  You have to go back and check to make sure a task was completed properly.
    5)  The programmers can make mistakes or intentionally compromise the integrity
        of their code.
    6)  Someone making a large withdrawal from their bank.
Lecture 20:
    1)  A quality newspaper versus 
    2)  An expert dominates a student, a novice doesn't dominate an expert, and 
        a student dominates a novice.
    3)  A low integrity level subject cannot write to a high integrity subject.
    4)  They are not related to each other directly.
Lecture 21:
    1)  The read/write capabilities are basically opposite of each other.
    2)  They are the same integrity level, but their labels don't match.
    3)  No.
Lecture 22:
    1)  Subjects are essentially expendable and cannot filter out bad info.
    2)  No. Once they have read bad information, their state is tainted.
    3)  Subjects are able to filter their incoming information.
    4)  Yes.
Lecture 23:
    1)  No. SD is for confidentiality and ID is for integrity.
    2)  There has to be a way to change software from development to production.
    3)  Yes.
    4)  Weak tranquility.
Lecture 24:
    1)  Metapolicy
    2)  Unreleased products
    3)  Released products
    4)  Enforcement makes sure that certification happens.
    5)  
Lecture 25:
    1)  They can leak information to a competitor.
    2)  Yes, they are unrelated.
    3)  Those that have already been accessed or are unrelated to other conflict
        of interest classes.
    4)  You can access any object, as long as the file is not in the same conflict
        class.
Lecture 26:
    1)  The subjects could have multiple roles, instead of just a single security
        level.
    2)  Active roles are the roles the subject currently assumes.
    3)  Role authorization ensures that the subject has a valid active role.
        Transaction authorization ensures that the transaction itself can occur.
    4)  Standard does not associate access permissions with a job/function/role.
        Standard does not recognize that a subject can have various functions 
        within the organization.
        Standard does not allow the subject to transition between roles without 
        having to change identities.
Lecture 27:
    1)  It can be large, sparse and difficult to modify.
    2)  1.Maintain a set of rules to compute access permissions based on attributes 
        of subjects and objects. (This is what we did for BLP.)
        2.Associate the permissions with objects. This is called an access control
        list (ACL).
        3.Associate the permissions with subjects. This is called a 
        capability-based system
Lecture 28:
    1)	The ability to distinguish between a yes or no bit.
    2)	It is important to measure the bandwidth of the information transfer.
    3)	Those things are necessary in order for the receiver to know what is being
    	sent.
    4)	You want the transfer to be fast and uninterceptible.
    5)	One bit. Yes or no can be signified with one bit. Even if the receiver knows
    	the answer, it still needs at least one bit to store the info.
Lecture 29:
    1)  It depends on how the information is transmitted.
    2)  Each character does not have to be represented in ascii. If the receiver
        knows the encoding scheme of the sender, it may require less bits.
    3)  4 bits.
    4)  8 bits
    5)  It's hard to resolve the level of uncertainty.
Lecture 30:
    1)  It can either be a binary digit or a quantity of information.
        The first kind of bit refers to binary values, and the second kind 
        refers to more of a continuous scheme.
    3)  955 are the message ten, and the others require 5 bits, with 5 other 
        possibilities of a 5 bit message.
        message 
    4)  You can strip off bits if you know a given message is being sent more
        frequently.
    6)  You can more easily transmit information.
Lecture 31:
    3)  You can't understand the message without it being uniquely decodable.
    4)  It is better if you don't lose information during transmission.
    5)  Morse code isn't streaming.
Lecture 32:
    2)  4/5?
    3)  It sets a lower limit on encoding efficiency.
Lecture 33:
    1)  If you send more information at once, you are increasing entropy.
    2)  It was calculated by multiplying the number of times you see a message
        times the amount of information it requires to send that message. You 
        then take the sum of those products.
    3)  3 bits for the naive encoding