Eric Tang
et5748

Lecture 1

1. Security can be applied to finances, identity, vehicles, etc.

2. "Protection of assets from threats".

3. Yes

4. The likehood is high - I've turned it on and connected to various sites and 
	used various programs.

5. Anti-virus, Anti-spyware, firewall

6. I think they effective for what they advertise.

7. Yes and no. A personal computer could leak some personal but non top secret
	information. However, the methods used could be widespread and 
	effective enough to penetrate more important systems.

Lecture 2

1. Yes, but these 5 five reasons emcompass most of the more specific factors.

2. Not entirely sicne programs first and formost are for completing certain 	tasks. In doing these tasks exploits could be found by using the
	program.

3. The attacker needs to only find one hole. 
	The defender needs to find all/most holes if they want security.

4. Yes I agree. The number of malware being developed is constantly increasing
	at an alarming rate. In addition, many times, the malware is prevented
	only after it has already done damage (fixed rather than prevented).

5. A program might have to trade in user functionality in order to increase
	security; ie. permissions might be denied or constantly asked for.

Lecture 3

1. "The possibility that a particular threat will adversely impact
	an information system by exploiting a particular vulnerability."

2. Yes

3. Accept: driving a car; Avoid: playing with fire; Mitigate: wearing a 
	seat belt; Transfer: buy insurance

4. Use money to save money - more specifically, the money is limited
	and the money spent cannot be spent for other security liabilities.

5. Functionality, speed, efficiency, etc.

Lecture 4

1. The list on slide 2 compasses the one on 3

2. Everything - a balance (risk management) most effectively keeps security.

3. Not all data is equal - some are more security sensitive than others, so
	we must group them by priority and by need-to-know's.

4. Change in users, or change in the importance of files

5. Example DDoS attacks. Withough security, availability might be compromised

6. Purchasing items off of Amazon.com

Lecture 5

1. Phone: conntect calls and prevent drops. Military: keep people out, protect
	weapons and information.

2. Policy are the individual rules that build the metapolicy.

3. Students cannot change grades; teachers can change grades, viewing available
	to both.

4. Yes, conflict w/ policy but not metapolicy.

5. Do not leak SSN information.

6. If there is not goal, there is not road

Lecture 6

1. Because of the amount and severity of sensitive information. Yes.

2. The major threat depends of which of the C.I.A. is most important.

3. To focus on one aspect of security to simplify the example.

4. Priority {need-to-know}

5. Policy matters more

6. Highest to lowest: 2, 6, 4, 5, 1, 3, 7

7. ?

8. Mixed documents - similar to weakest link, but the highest in the case. 
	You want the most sensitive factor protected, so everything in that 
	document must cater to that.

Lecture 7

1. Rank and job description

2. Documents is priority{need-to-know}. Humans are by the earned rank and
	what field they're in.

3. Different ranked accounts. Army

4. Don't want to leak information that is not needed for their job.

5. They all make sense, b/c the "yes" clearance is as high as the sensitivity 
	with the right need-to-know, the "no" b/c clearance is lower or wrong 
	need-to-know.

Lecture 8

1. To identify the entities in a security system.

2. transitive property

3. 

4. Both read and write - same level

5. Read down

6. 

Lecture 9

1. Other actions are allowed (eg write)

2. Writing to the wrong place can leak info

3. Many reads/writes are done w/o knowledge of the user.

4. Write up

5. Same level - dominate each other.

6. Log in as lower than private and send information

7. Deny the rewrite, but don't let him know about the failure.

Lecture 10

1. OK: Subj moving up and Obj moving down, Not OK: opposites

2. Sometimes subjects/objects change - maybe due to user discretion.

3. Lowing a Subj means it carried information down - bad.

4. Make sure it doesn't carry sensitive info that the lower level doesn't know
	about.

Lecture 11

1. highest subj, lowest obj

2. matrix = policies, BLP = metapolicy

Lecture 12

1. A points to itself

2. 

3. Information should never flow down - leaked.'

Lecture 13

1. read down, write up.

2. information doesn't flow down

3. information doesn't flow down.

4. the created folder has no priority

5. 

6. No

7. Yes it must - shouldn't change until it gets response

8. SH does what it wants - it's higher up.

9. If SL changes depending on SH, then some information was leaked.

Lecture 14

1. Two subject - both can only read 

2. No, nothing leaked

3. Storage - file

4. Timing

5. Both storange and time

6. implicit

7. Termination doesn't occur too often

8. Being able to record/read power usage.

9. Phones

Lecture 15

1. Processors are fast - many happening maybe even concurrently

2. Risk management - might lose too much

3. Fix it... Remove the modifying of a record

4. 2 processes share processor - differnt usage of time depending on need of 
	process

5. Sender uses less time, receiver keeps track of own time stamps.

Lecture 16

1. Create doesn't know if the file existed or not to begin with along with
	no error message.

2. Leak of info - someone is modifying something that someone else can read.

3. No, same process

4. To search for covert channels.