Name: Rachel Wong
EID: rcw956
CS Login: rachelw
Email: rachelcwong168@gmail.com

Lecture 53:
1. It is important for a digital signature to be non reusable so that way no one can see your signature and then use it for their own later.
2. Because the hash is a finite short fixed value.
3. Unforgeable, authentic, no repudiation, tamperproof, not reusable.

Lecture 54:
1. To know if the key the sender sends is really their key.
2. To certify that Y passed the message to X.
3. To compare the hash they recieved in the signed value. If theyre the same, you know it wasn't corrupted.
4. You could check the hash of the key and the message to check if it's corrupt

Lecture 55:
1. Trust begins at some unimpeachable authority.
2. To tell you an expiration date of when to trust them.
3. Then value has been corrupted.

Lecture 56:
1. 
2. The content may not be sent securely, or the receiver may not be able to get the message
3.
4. If the attacker has Kb, you can extract the message.
5. You can obtain M and Kb. With this you can find Ka
6. If you have the message, you can XOR and find Kb.
7. It's hard because attackers can manipulate what they have to get keys and messages.

Lecture 57:
1. When you send an email or move a file you need protocols.
2. Some protocols involve a trusted authentication server or certification authority.
3. Theres a public key infrastructure in place and that each of them has a reliable version of the others public key.
4. Does one party know that the other party has the key and can use it. A is talking to B and B is talking to A. 
5. Yes.
6. We will know in a few lectures...

Lecture 58:
1. So that way the reciever knows whats going on and can tell which step of the protocol he is at.
2. We want to be as efficient as possible. If we encrypt a message that doesn't need to be encrypted, thats more work for the receiver and sender.

Lecture 59:
1. There are a lot of questions that deal with answering what constitutes an attack. 
2. The attacker interjects old messages into the flow of messages and potentially mess things up.
3. Yes. Attackers can confuse the sender and receiver without getting information causing bad things to happen.
4. Create a protocol that is robust in the face of a determined and resourceful attacker.
5. Because of the distrubuted nature of the system. A party to a protocol won't know anything about the current run of the protocol except the messages it has received and sent. 

Lecture 60:
1. No.
2. a) sender A sends a message initiating communication. b.) receiver generates a new key and sends it back to A. c) A has key, sends to B the additional piece of information of A's identity. B wakes up and realizes it is step 3. A has key, B has key, but A doesn't know if B has a key. d.) B generates new nonce, sends the result to A. e.) A knows B has the key. A sends back to B a response.

Lecture 61:
1. The way that S knows that a message is actually coming from A is the secret key that they share. If the attacker has the secret key, then A could be impersonated.
2. Yes.

Lecure 62:
1. It guarantees that A and B will have the key.
2. B doens't know A actually has the key. Both share a key and they know it. 
3. You could use asymmetric keys instead of symmetric.

Lecture 63:
1. Verification of protocols is important in order to send messages safetly. 
2. Belief logics allow reasoning about what principals within the protocol should be able to infer from the messages they see. Allows abstract proofs, but may miss some important flaws.
3. You have to postulate some reasonable initial assumptions about the state of knowledge/belief of the principals.

Lecture 64:
1. Modal logic is everything logic is + modal operators.
2. If A believes that A and B share a key and A receives a message encrypted with that key, then A can infer that B sent it.
3. If A believes that a message it receives is fresh, and A believes that B sent X, then A believes that B believes X.
4. If A believes B has jurisdiction over X and A believes B believes X, then A believes X.
5. Idealization is to omit parts of the message that do not contribute to the beliefs of the recipients.  

Lecture 65:
1. If it has plaintext, this is often lost in the idealization.
2. Because we can infer these things through intuition.
3. Use of a logic like BAN shows what is provable and also what must be assumed.
