Name:Trevor Thackston
EID:ttt733
CS Login:ttt733
Email:trevor.thackston@gmail.com

Lecture 66
1. pretty good privacy
2. provide strong encryption to everyone
3. yes
4. so someone can be held accountable if it fails

Lecture 67
1. sender creates message and generates a hash of it, signs the hash, puts the hash at the front of message, receiver verifies signature and generates a new hash code
2. sender creates message and random session key to encrypt message, k encrypted with public key, receiver recovers session key, session key decrypts message
3. authentication to original message, confidentiality to result

Lecture 68
1. compression, emails, segmentation
2. encryption after compression strengthens encryption
3. so signature does not depend on the compression algorithm
4. map groups of three octets into 4 ascii characters, appends crc for data error checking
5. email systems restrict message length

Lecture 69
1. session public private passphrase-based
2. used only once
3. The encryption algorithm E is used to generate a new n-bit key from a previous session key and two n/2-bit blocks generated based on user keystrokes, including keystroke timing. The two blocks are encrypted using E and the previous key, and combined to form the new key
4. an odd number n is generated and tested for primality
5. encrypted with a user-supplied passphrase to keep them secure

Lecture 70
1. generate an id likely to be unique for a given user
2. table of rows with timestamp, key id, public key, private key, and user id
3. table of rows with timestamp, key id, public key, and user id
4. use key id field as an index to get encrypted private key, prompt user for passphrase
5. indicates the extent to which pgp trusts that this is a valid public key
6. owner issues a signed key revocation certificate

Lecture 71
1. in consumer problems attacker gets between client and service, in producer problems attacker overwhelms server
2. server receives syn packets with no return address and is overloaded with half-open connections
3. might block out legitimate connections or consume lots of resources

Lecture 72
1. detects patterns of identifiers in the request stream and discards ones outside the good range
2. ids reacts after the attack has begun, ips attempts to prevent intrusions through blocking
3. have too many servers to be overwhelmed, distinguish attack packets from regular packets, slow down processing of attackers, request more traffic from all requestors

Lecture 73
1. false negatives are when an attack isn't detected, false positives are when normal behavior is classified as an attack; both are bad and can cripple a system
2. a system is accurate if it detects all attacks, precise if it never reports normal behavior as an aattack
3. you can either detect everything or nothing
4. high detection accuracy can still mean a high chance that a raised alarm is false

Lecture 74
1. infect a random list of ip addresses and launch a dos attack on whitehouse.gov
2. static seed in random number generator and ip address for whitehouse.gov changed
3. machine could be disinfected by rebooting it
4. random seed in its RNG

Lecture 75
1. exploited same buffer-overflow vulnerability
2. to avoid the problem codered version 1 had
3. install a mechanism for remote, root-level access
4. many are vulnerable to attack
5. machines should be patched frequently

Lecture 76
1. most customers dont have expertise to determine security effectiveness
2. requirements defining security functionality, assurance requirements, methodology for determining that requirements are met, measure of evaluation result
3. federal agencies use them
4. at least one algorithm, physical security improvements, tamper-resistance, immediate zeroing of keys upon tampering

Lecture 77
1. secure systems evaluation criteria
2. used by 26 countries
3. countries have their own ways of securing data
4. PP describes products in terms of threats, ST contains security requirements of the product to be evaluated

Lecture 78
1. protect info on whether trash has been collected
2. detect invalid tags and messages, fault tolerance
3. map threads and assumptions to security objectives and requirements

Lecture 79
1. map security requirements to subfunctions
2. PP describes products in terms of threats, ST contains security requirements of the product to be evaluated

Lecture 80
1. assurance levels, provide assurance that corresponding rigor was applied to each test
2. independent oranizations like NIST
3. countries don't trust one another as international politics are equivalent to man's state of nature
4. no, ensure no bias in tests
5. product was designed using formal methods
